This is Jockel fondcast number 285 with echo Charles and me,
Jockel willing. Good evening, echo. Good evening. And also joining us tonight.
Dave Burke, good evening, Dave. Good evening. All right. So we are going to dive into some work that I have been
waiting to dive into it. I waited because I wanted to do it justice. I waited because I wanted to
be thorough in covering it. I waited because there's a lot of work to cover. And going
going into this, this particular book, books, series of books, articles, individual,
the more I read over the years, it got better and better and kept getting better and kept making
more sense to me from a tactical battle war perspective, from a leadership perspective,
from a how-to lead perspective and also, contraryly like a red cell type, how not to lead,
from a relationship leadership, capital perspective and a Jockel perspective. So basically,
I was just seeing everything in my life wrapped up in this particular, this particular individual
and his work. And on top of that, so that there's another podcast that I've got waiting in the
wings or it's going to take a series of podcasts, but it's waiting in the wings. I'm super excited
to do it, but I can't do that podcast until I do this podcast or at least this podcast or at least
a couple of podcasts. On this individual, this one man, highly influential man, a guy named
BH, Lidel, Hart, Basel, Henry, Lidel, Hart. You can probably guess if you don't know who he is.
If you know military history and military strategy and military theory at all, you know who he is.
If you don't know who he is, you can probably guess that he's British because he has the first name,
Basel, right? Sure. I mean, that's a pretty British name. You didn't go to buy Basel. I guess he went
by BH, I guess. I'm guessing that's how he writes his books. Mother's maiden name was Lidel.
She was Scottish. You know, right, born and raised, I guess on the border of England.
The heart side, the Lidel, the heart side was farmers. He was, he was, went to some really nice
private schools, anything. So he grew up in England, born in France, but grew up in England.
He went to some really nice private schools. The first one of the private schools that he went through
is called St. Paul's, which is in London. And it was founded in 1509.
High school, founded in 1509. Okay, so that's just kind of crazy when we think about England.
Then he ended up at Cambridge University, which, by the way, was founded 300 years prior to that
in 1209, 1209, 1209. Well, he left Cambridge University, one World War I broke out,
volunteered for the British Army. He was in the King's own Yorkshire Light Infantry.
Glad we did that light infantry podcast recently. Dave, you've timed it all. You like that one,
didn't you? I did. Made you start thinking about some light infantry because it's a mindset.
Yeah. It's not just a way that people are trained. It's a way of thinking.
Yeah. And I got to pull that real time at Master. I listened to it all the way to Master and put it into
my brief. What was that point that you made? Well, the whole point behind that, like the largest theory
when you went into it was the size of the force is not the deciding factor. There's a lot of this,
if you have a smaller force, doesn't guarantee your defeat. And the whole point of this was like,
how are we going to move think maneuver in a way that a smaller force that looks weak on paper
and just outmaneuver these big giant forces because they're inflexible, immobile, they're dug in.
So that theoretically in my mind resonated with all sorts of stuff. Can you imagine as I was
learning due to and thinking about that actual thing? How many how many how many elements
started to just come into view? Like come out of the fog as I'm thinking through that very thing.
I'm learning due to it's I'm like, oh, if I can maneuver myself over here and put all my force
against a smaller portion of their strength, I can win.
All right. So he goes into the British Army. He is part of the King's own Yorkshire light
infantry shout out to Yorkshire. He spent time on the Western Front World War I.
And got sent back from the front two times because he was blown up and had conclusive injuries.
Cool. Hey, listen, you went to the front. You got blown up so bad that you got sent back,
because you had conclusive injuries. Cool. You good. Okay. Go back. All right. You get blown up again.
Boom. You know what? You're good. Okay. Go back again. Third time he goes back. Cool.
Um, gets back just in time for the battle of the song. And during the battle of the song,
wounded three times. Continue to fight. Finally, he gets gasped. Badly enough that he can't continue
fighting. His battalion was just about wiped out on the first day of the offensive.
Battle of the song. This is so his battalion was some of the 60,000 casualties on day one.
And that event and those events clearly left a mark on his mentality. Because you've heard
me go off and talk about the, I don't know if I've used the word stupidity before,
because it's not the right word, but the, the, the problem with World War I of
hey, okay. We just lost a battalion at 0,600. Cool. 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 5. Dave. Your battalion's going.
Okay. Dave's battalion just got wiped out. Okay. Echo at 6, 10. Your battalion. Go.
And that's what we're doing. That left a mark on him. Eventually, after he's wounded,
started to heal up, went back, trained new recruits, wrote the infantry training manual.
After the war. After the war. After the war, hands up right in the infantry training manual.
He got married. Got married to a woman named Jesse Stone. We're wondering what layers are there.
Had a son, he retired in 1927. Came a journalist. Military historian, military theorist.
wrote the most wrote so much. It's ridiculous. It's just writing all the time. Deep historical
writing analysis, worked for Prime Minister Chamberlain. And he was kind of maneuvering and
getting people to think in a different way of different way of using air power or different way of
using tank power or different way of using maneuver warfare. And of course, we all know what happened
with Prime Minister Chamberlain. He was weak and Churchill took over. And when Churchill took over,
they kind of used the more traditional war strategy in the beginning. Guess who didn't do that.
You know, who didn't do that Hitler, the Nazis, who were actually paying attention.
Now, there's some question around how much influence heart, Le Del Hart had over the Nazis.
There's definitely some meaning. They were reading the line in Patton. I read your book.
Right. So Patton saying he read Rommel's book. Well, there's there are actual connections
between Rommel and some of the other more known, more well known and some of the lesser well-known
Nazi leaders that were reading his stuff. I'm being like, I know this makes this makes sense.
There's also a lot of people that will say that that be a child. Kind of inflated that a little bit.
But there was some influence. And also regardless of how much of a connection there was,
even if there wasn't a connection, they were both thinking the same things. Right. They were both
taking and learning the same lessons, which that's what that happened sometimes. You know, you put
somebody in one situation, they're in a vacuum from someone else. If you put them in a similar
situation like World War I, there's a pretty good chance that they could come to similar conclusions.
Like maybe it's not smart just to line up and start attacking all at once. Maybe we should use
some decentralized command. Maybe we should use maneuver warfare. So they all kind of came to the same
conclusions, meaning BHLadel Hart, meaning some of the German and Nazi leadership.
And so that stuff kind of came into play. So he wrote a bunch of this stuff down.
He wrote a book called The Strategy of the Indirect Approach, which was also printed
as the way to win wars, which is pretty cool. And what this is kind of what kicked me into
hyperdrive of doing this, and we talked about this on the underground. So I did a post about
about the Civil War. I did a post a social media post about the Civil War, about the Battle
of Chancellorville, about Jackson taking the indirect path going 14 miles around to the flank of the
Union troops and winning the battle in an hour as opposed to just taking the direct assault towards
the Union troops, which is a half a mile. And some of the comments in there, you know,
I'll, of course, what do I focus on? But most of the comments were like, yeah, that makes sense.
Use the indirect approach. And I talked about using it towards people, and in a leadership position,
how the indirect approach is normally the best way to go. And people were like, you know,
you should just tell the truth. Like, are you saying you should lie to people? So it was that whole
thing. And so I look, I know where I got these ideas from. It's no mystery to me. And part of it is the
fact that you put me in and you put someone in an environment and you make them figure something out.
They're going to come to the same conclusions. Right. So some of this stuff I was thinking,
man, going to the flank makes a lot of sense. And it makes a lot of sense from leadership.
But, but I also know that these ideas were dripped into my head over the years. I mean, when you do
a basic seal assault on a target, guess what? You set up a base element that puts down covering fire
and then a flanking element goes around, that's what you do. This is not rocket science. So I know
that some of my indirect, my theory, my thoughts around the indirect strategy, the indirect approach.
I know some of those were just from being in the military. But I also know that some of it came
from reading heart. And so it made me crack open some of these books again and made me kind of fast
forward in my mind to getting to these sooner in this podcast. Because let's face it. When
well, the theories based in reality. Right. And that's what that's what's interesting about this.
When you have someone that's spent time in the military, because the the the name of this book
that one of the books we're going to look at today is the strategy of indirect approach. And it's
about the theory, right? But if you have someone when you have someone that's been in war and spent
time as a military leader and spent time in combat, and spent time in the worst kind of combat,
like the actual worst combat. The actual worst combat, battle of salt, like the worst combat,
actual worst combat, it doesn't, it's not theory anymore. Right. That theory becomes based deeply
in reality. And that's what we have with with this book. And we're becoming covering two of his
books today. Or at least trying to cover two of them. We might make it through, I don't even know
how much because there's a lot to talk about. One is called the strategy of the indirect approach,
which which I guess said was also reprinted as the way to win wars. And the other one is just
called strategy straight up. So I guess we're going to get to it. Anything, Dave?
I wrote down the word travesty. When you were talking about war one, I just wrote that word
down just to remind me of the thing that I think about is you, when you talk about losing a battalion,
it says scale, I think it's actually kind of hard to comprehend when to think of a battalion.
I mean, I have, we have lost. I've been on patrols where we lost a vehicle. The lost people in
a whole vehicle. A battalion is on a scale and just sort of the willingness to allow that to happen
over and over again. And then then in retrospect thinking, and I was thinking of this as you said,
it was the Germans had to learn that same lesson. They had to have learned the same lesson.
You know, the Marine Corps takes a little bit of pride in sort of showing up, having the similar
experience and then saying, we're not doing this anymore. And the Marine Corps really takes pride in
that and we teach that history. But in actual world war one, yes, where you're talking about. Yes,
in actual world war one of showing up sort of after the war had been underway for quite some time,
getting on board with how is how is being done and then suffering massive casualties in
the very initially engagements and saying, we're done with this direct assault approach.
And the larger point to that is the idea that not just for him, but for Germany as well,
the idea that the way we did that was a travesty and that that you would see how those lessons
apply to well beyond just warfare that that would sink into your psyche and every single
everything you did in your life would be informed as such a bad way to describe like it's
influence on a level that you wouldn't just rethink how you did war. You would rethink every
aspect of your life. If you suffered the casualties to that degree because of the willingness
for leaders to just say, just like you described, your battalions gone, you're up next.
And the fact that it influenced every aspect of his life is actually not even remotely surprised
to me. Yeah, and it boils down to, and I know you like when I say this Dave, it becomes not just a
theory, not just a strategy, but a way of thinking, a way of thinking. Yes, what it becomes. And what's
interesting is, we're about to hear exactly how that transpired in his head. And this is something
we covered this and we could actually covered this on the underground. But I just, I had to touch
on the underground, but we're going to go deep. So here we go. Here's the preface. My original
strategy of the strategy of indirect approach was written in 1929, published under the title,
the decisive wars of history. It has been out of print for some time. So there's another third
title that this book has been published under. In the following year, in the years following
its publication, I continued to explore this line of fall. And from the results of such further
study compiled a number of supplementary notes, which were privately circulated. Since the course
of the present war has provided further examples of the value of the indirect approach and thereby
given fresh point to the thesis, the issue of a new edition of the book provides an opportunity
to include these. So now he's writing this, he's putting this one out in World War II.
And actually it's towards the end of World War II because well, he's he's
ends up talking about World War II and what's happening. When in the course of studying a long
series of military campaigns, I first came to perceive the superiority of the indirect over the
direct approach. I was looking merely for light upon strategy. So he starts off just looking like,
okay, how does this work? How can we win? Seems like this indirect thing's pretty cool.
Seems like a good strategy for the battlefield. With deepening reflection, however,
I began to realize that the indirect approach had a much wider application that it was a law
of life in all spheres, a truth of philosophy. Right? A law of life in all spheres.
So this is where we get crazy because there's so many people. So many people, this is like,
oh, you got to be direct. That's just such a common theme in the world. You got to be direct.
You got to be frank. You got to tell. So I get it. I get it. I get it. He found that this has a
much wider application. And it's a law of all, all of life in all spheres, a truth of philosophy.
It's fulfillment was seen to be the key practical achievement in dealing with any problem
where the human factor predominates and a conflict of wheels tends to spring from an
underlying concern for interests. Okay. So here's where this gets awesome. So he's talking about
conflict, right? A conflict of wheels. And what we might fail to realize is that if I'm on the
same team as Dave, we can also still have a conflict of wheels because Dave wants to A and I want to
do be. So even though we're on the same team, that's like one of the other perspectives that I think
about this. You know what I said about leadership capital and relationships? That's this applies
100% there, too. In all such cases, in all such cases. So this is cases where you have
the human factor. Anytime you got the human factor, in all such cases, the direct assault of new
ideas, provokes a stubborn resistance, thus intensifying the difficulty of producing a change of
outlook. Dave, how long have you heard how many times have you heard me tell this to clients,
to people? This is it. It's I don't have the vocabulary to explain how often we say that in
some version of that sentence in everything. But I got to be careful because I could probably just
just hearing it and invoke so many things that think about. But he's almost articulating it like
when there's a human component to this and I'm thinking of myself. So when is that not, when in my
life am I not interacting with another human being? If we're if we're doing a computer software
design, right, we don't need to worry about this. Right. If we're actually programming a machine of
some kind, we don't need to worry about it. Yeah. Other than that, other than that, if you directly
assault an idea, it's going to provoke stubborn resistance. So if I impose my plan on Dave,
it's going to get resistance. Even though Dave's on my team, I impose a plan on it's going to be
resistant. And it's going to make the change of outlook harder. It's going to make the change of
outlook harder. So if my wife wants something and I attack it, it's going to be harder for her to
change her mind. There's going to be more resistance for her change, you can remind on where we're
going out for dinner. That's what's going to happen. Back to the book, conversion is achieved
more easily and rapidly by unsuspected infiltration of a different idea or by an argument that
turns the flank of instinctive opposition. So you're going to get more easy, more easily and more
rapidly conversion of their brain will come when you flank them. Check and faster and faster rapidly
and more easily by an unsuspected infiltration of a different idea and by the way, don't let
well we'll get to it. So there's some people that are thinking right now, oh, so what you're going to
use going to lie to Dave? No, I'm not going to lie to Dave. Doesn't mean I didn't mean I say,
well, actually, Dave, we should use my plan because Adam and I'm going to make up some intel that
sports my plan. I'm going to make up a timeline that sports my plan. No, that's not what I'm talking
about at all. Back to the book, in commerce, the suggestion that there is a bargain to be secured as far
more potent than any direct appeal to buy. And in any sphere, it is a proverbial
that the surest way of gaining a superior acceptance of a new idea is to persuade them that it is
his idea. Hello, this is something again. Maybe I should just start paying what is it? Paying
royalties. I just own royalties to be it because leadership strategy and tackle, oh, that's just
all in there. Let us make it their idea. As in war, the aim is to weaken resistance,
before attempting to overcome it. And the effect is best attained by drawing the other party
out of his defenses. Great. We're not attacking hardened positions. This idea of the indirect
approaches closely related to all problems of the influence of mind upon mind. All problems of
the influence of mind upon mind. All problems. Any time it's my mind against someone else's mind,
this is where we need to go and direct. The most influential factor in human history.
Yet it is harder reconcile with another lesson that true conclusions can only be reached or
approached by pursuing the truth without regard to where it may lead or what its effect may be
on different interests. So what do we say in there? And how are we saying? Wait a second. Wait a second.
What shouldn't we be going after the truth? Like, isn't it the, look, if I'm working with Dave
and I think my plan is better, well then I need to tell him that. That's the truth. The truth is my
plan is better. And what's so hard about this is one of those universal things that pisses me off.
I got you. There's no one that it's against all moly high ground to lie. Right? So the opposite
of lying is what? Truth. Telling the truth. So if we're certain to think that this is not telling
the truth and what do we do it? We must be lying. So how do we reconcile? That's what we say.
How do we reconcile this? Wait, I have a different plan than Dave. I think my plan is better.
I should tell him the truth. That's what I should do. I shouldn't lie to him. We're not talking
all lying to him. Back to the book. History bears witness to the vital part
that the prophets have played in human progress, which is evidence of the ultimate practical
value of expressing unreservedly the truth is one sees it. Okay. So now we're going to get
he's going to use the example, historical examples and there's countless of
prophets. Someone that is a prophet that stands up and says this is the truth as I see it.
And tells the truth. Yet it also becomes clear that the acceptance and spreading of their
vision has always depended on another class of men. What's the other class of men? Leaders.
Leaders who had to be philosophical strategists striking a compromise between truth and men's
receptivity to it. So lately I've been saying a lot of what good is telling the truth if no one
hears it or no one listens to you. If you stab somebody in the eye with the dagger of truth,
what are they going to do? They're going to be pissed. They're going to lash out at you. They might
even pull out a side arm and shoot you in the gut. But they definitely don't want to hear anything from
it. And they'll do their best to pull that thing back out and stab you with it. So even made any progress
at all. So that's what a prophet does. A prophet says this is the truth and they stab you in the eye with it.
A leader has to find that compromise between telling the truth and getting people to actually listen to it.
Their effect has often depended as much on their own limitations in perceiving the truth as on their
practical wisdom in proclaiming it. So how are you going to tell the truth? Practical wisdom. How are
you going to say? How are you going to say it? Where it'll actually be listened to?
And then he goes on to say this, the prophets must be stoned. That is their lot. That is their
test of their self fulfillment. What happens to the prophet? The prophet gets stoned. The prophet gets
crucified. That's what happens. But a leader who is stoned may merely prove that he has failed in
his function through a deficiency of wisdom or through confusing his function with that of a prophet.
This is pure brilliance, by the way. This is absolute pure brilliance. So if you're that, if you're
an leadership position and what you do is you start stabbing people with the dagger of truth in the neck
and you think you're doing a good thing. Guess what? They're going to tackle you and they're
going to stone you to death. They're going to execute you because you were stabbing people and
it offended them and it hurt them and that you didn't convince anybody of anything. So sometimes
you get a leader that's like, look, the truth is, listen, they're going to tell you the truth here.
That's not good. It's not going to help you. It's crazy. You're like on page one. I know.
I'll page one half. Yeah. I think the phrase that's been coming to mind a lot lately when you
talk about this is a truth that it's imposed upon somebody compared to the truth that they
discovered for themselves, the difference between those two. And I'm thinking of all the phrases
that people use when they're going to reveal the truth. Let me stop you right there. Actually,
like when you hear people prepping for the the direct assault, which is, I'm now going to let you know
and even the preparation for that, just that phrase alone puts the other person in a position where
all they want to do is defend themselves. And the words that come next, almost don't even matter because
if I say, actually, Jaco, the reality is. The reality is. The first thing you do is is you mentally
you are dug in. No matter how truthful I'm going to be after that, it's just the connection that
he's making though, like the how universal that is to all interactions is just it's it's
crazy listening to this and then the the application to every interaction you have. With every
with if any human being and how instinctive it is to, I guess, tell the truth and how ineffective
that way of thinking is if there's an outcome that you're trying to shape.
Eko Charles, every ever seen the movie, Raiders of the Lost Ark. Yes, sir. Okay. So there's
an arc, right? Our feet arc of the covenant. And I think the truth is kind of like that.
If you reveal that truth in an improper way, people's faces are not enough. That's what happens.
Yeah. So people treat the truth as if it's only benevolent as if it can only do good.
But you gotta remember there's collateral that truth causes collateral damage and people don't
pay attention to that. So when you start pulling off the lid, maybe you got to like,
you got to prep people for it. You got to say, turn your eyes for a second here. There's going to be
some bright lights. If you don't prep them for it and what what we want to do,
what we want to do is we want them to reveal the truth themselves. That's what we really want.
A really good leader. Look, a profit will show you the truth. Maybe you're getting melted.
A really good leader. You somehow discover the truth. That means they showed it to you. But you're
even out. So the whole expression, the truth hurts. You know that, that's because that's kind of
common right? Truth. So would that be an indicator of maybe a profit or not the correct rate?
That's profit all day long. Profit is like, look, look, I go, true, third, but I'm going to tell you
something. You know what I mean? How how how how how open-minded are you when I get done with that statement?
I would meet it with stubborn resistance check. And you know, we like to think that, you know,
I really have a good relationship with someone. You know, great. There might be one person in your
entire life that you can be like, hey, dude, that was jacked up and you're like, cool, got it.
What adjustments to write it? There's one person in your life you can do that with.
Yeah, it is maybe. Isn't that at the end of the day in a way the indirect approach anyway?
Because you know, you say, okay, that one person. Yeah, but you know, why is that one person? Because you
have this years and years and years and years and years of this indirect, you know, kind of approach or
whatever end of the year. So you open up that little hole that, yeah, you have that direct line all day.
Now, yeah, now he's at, yes, you are correct, even that approach. Because if you were to met that
person day one three years ago and said, you know, I was looking at the video you made,
I'm not feeling it. Actually, you know, the camera angles that you use kind of marginal, right?
So these are five years of work in with you before I could be like, bra.
The soundtrack. No, actually. You put a Christmas song in there. It was actually right away.
Yeah. You're right. Back to the book. Time alone can tell whether the effect of such a
sacrifice redeems the apparent failure as a leader that does honor to him as a man. So there's a
chance that you could, you could present something in over time. People go, yeah, he was right.
At the least, he avoids the more common fault of leader of leaders. That of sacrificing the truth
to expediency without ultimate advantage to the cause. So occasionally a leader is like, you know what,
we just need to tell the truth and you sacrifice it. It gets killed. It gets thrown away. And
one of the books that I'm, or the podcast that I want to move to from this one, which I will get
to and I'm not 100% sure when, but they got all these examples of problems in the military and
military thinking. And one of the problems, and I forget the exact number, but there has been like
20 major advancements in naval warfare in the last 500 years. And every one of them was met with
absolutely stiff resistance. No, not everyone in 17 of them were met with stiff resistance by all
senior naval leaders in the world. You know, they started making ships from steel instead of
what? And watch what like this is, Rio, you can't repair steel. We can need a well-drawn
topic. They resisted, switching to the steam engine, switching to gas, which I reduce all, switching to
like all the, every people resisted every one of these things, every one of them. Well, sorry,
17 out of 20 of great advancements. It happens all the time. Because somebody goes hard with the truth
and people defend. They go in instant defense mode. So like, remember the movie are independent.
No, no, Army getting. I don't think I ever actually saw it, but. It's too bad. It's good flick.
Oh sure. I wasn't that up for several Oscars. Anyway, Armageddon, Bruce Willis.
Oh, yeah. Asteroid coming in, right? What was the plan that won? Do you want to
arm again? I did. Sorry, dude. Yeah. In dependency, I was, I was down in the middle of
that. We're just culturally lost. It's okay. I'll explain to you. Asteroid coming in,
right? World world ending asteroid global killer. So they're like, hey, let's just throw a blast it with
nukes and blow it right out of the sky. Then the smart scientists is like, that's a bad idea.
Everyone gets all mad, right? No, actually, we're going to you know, direct approach.
Lunch nukes, right? Can't get anymore directed that. But the smart scientists said, nope,
this is what you're going to do. You're going to go in there. You're going to drill a little hole.
You're going to put a nuk in that hole. You're going to just nudge it just a little bit on the side.
It's now that trajectory gets changed. Do you see what I'm saying? That was the smarter approach.
Same thing, exactly right. Here I am going through historical books trying to figure this stuff out.
I could figure it out with Armageddon. I get it on the Bruce Willis. Yeah, you don't go to
bother with all this. Check. Back to the book. We good. Yes, Armageddon. Yeah. I'm just saying these
ideas everywhere. You see them say we go bad. No. For whoever, habitually suppresses the truth.
So this is where this is where you have to pay attention. Because again, it's not me lying to
Dave and saying, well, actually, Dave, the timeline that's required for the plan, you, but we better use
my plan. Whoever, habitually suppresses the truth in the interest of tact will produce a deformity
from the womb of his thought. So you can't, you can't lie about what you're saying. You have to
maintain, you have to maintain the truth, but you have to take an indirect approach. That's it.
It's not a lie. It's an indirect approach bound to the truth. He explains it a little bit more.
Is there a practical way of combining progress towards the attainment of truth with progress
towards its acceptance? Is there a way to get Dave to think about my plan and utilize my plan
with also doing it in a way that he is open to accept this idea? Is there a combination of those two
things of telling Dave the truth about what I think of his plan? And at the same time, getting him to
accept my opinion, that's what we want, right? A possible solution of the problem is suggested by
reflection on strategic principles, which point to the importance of maintaining an object
consistently and also of pursuing it in a way adapted to the circumstances. This seems so obvious
is that we continue to focus on the right thing, but then we continue to move towards this objective
but as circumstances change, we adjust, we maneuver. We say, oh yeah, there's a massive enemy
location right here. Let's not continue in that direction. Let's go around it.
Isn't it smart to do that with our ideas as well? It doesn't mean we abandon the objective.
It doesn't mean we say, oh, we're going to change this objective or we're not going to continue
to, it means we adjust our approach and maybe instead of going direct, we go indirect.
Opposition to the truth is inevitable. That's a good thing to remember.
Opposition to the truth is inevitable, especially if it takes the form of a new idea,
but the degree of resistance can be diminished by giving thought not only to the aim but to the
method of approach. Avoid a frontal attack in a long established position. Instead, seek to turn it
by a flank movement so that the more penetrable side is exposed to the thrust of the truth.
But in any such indirect approach, take care not to diverge from the truth. For nothing is more
fatal to its real advancement than to lapse into the untruth.
So for the people that commented when I talked about the indirect approach and we're like, oh,
you're just going to lie to your people. No, no, we're not going to lie to our people.
The truth is the objective, but we are going to adjust our approach so that we're not offensive
to the individuals or the groups that we're talking to so that we don't cause them to put up a
more stiff resistance to fight against our idea, to, to, for them to look at it as if it's not the truth.
We're going to get a flank. That's what we're going to do. And then he goes on here and he says
the meaning of these reflections may be made clearer by illustration from one's own experience.
Looking back on the stages by which various fresh ideas gained acceptance, it can be seen
that the process was eased when they could be presented, not as something radically new, but as
the revival in modern terms of a time-honored principle or practice that had been forgotten. So here's
is one of his little indirect approaches is to take a new idea and and camouflage it with an old idea.
It's kind of like what the, what the Christians did with the Vikings. Right, Easter, you know,
the term Easter and yes, it's a pagan thing, but we call it this a pagan word and it's a pagan ceremony.
But the Christians were like, oh yeah, you can call the thing in the spring. We call that Easter. It's cool.
It's about Christ rising, but we call it Easter. It's sort of a thing that you guys already do.
They just kind of taken all the idea and rebrand it. That's actually what they did.
Yeah, I think they did that with Christmas too. That was Christmas too. So that's what we're doing.
We're kind of camouflaging this idea. So it's a little more open to it. Yeah, you know how you guys do the spring time thing
and you guys celebrate birth, right? We had, you know, like a rebirth kind of co-brand that thing. We're good.
It's kind of like your dog. Great. We can feed them the heart pills.
Right, heart worm pills. Okay. You put it in a little, put a little piece of steak around that.
Yeah, you know, like you've been eating this food this whole time. Yeah, yeah, yeah, just put the, put the heart worm pills in there.
He goes, he goes on to say, here, this required not deception, but care to trace the connection. Since there is nothing new in this one.
Right, you can always figure out something that ties into what you're doing.
A notable example was the way that the opposition to mechanized mechanization was diminished by showing that the mobile
armored vehicle, the fast moving tank was fundamentally the air of the armored horsemen and thus the natural means of
reviving the decisive role, which cavalry
played in past ages, which is what we call what do we call armored cavalry now? Why is that because people
resist this tank? It's going to get stuck. It takes gas. I mean, the horse can go forever. You can eat off the land.
How are you going to refuel these tanks? People just resisted that idea. Is this? And then it's like, oh no, no, this is the new
cavalry. Okay, kind of cool. Then we're down. So what can you do is you try and convince people of ideas
taking all my idea, repackage it. And it's true because there's no idea new ideas under the sun. It's not like you're lying to them.
I don't know. Obviously, what's coming in terms of, you know, that how much detail is in and
warling discuss, but even just even just the word the truth, how that's the, it's the topic that you're
trying to get across. Yes. And even what that means, like, if I have an idea, that's different than
me like trying to get you to understand some sort of like, hey, two plus two is four. And you're going to say no.
Okay, as opposed to I think we should do this and the abandonment of that truth versus, all right, listen, I can't
just walk up to Jack and go, hey, this is the new way we're going to do, it's all this problem.
And even just the word truth has a connotation like I'm right in your wrong, as opposed to,
hey, I'm trying to get you to see this a different way. And it might not end up exactly how I've
drawn it out. Maybe my drawing is like ends up in 80% or whatever, but I could see people getting
hung up the idea that I have to convince Jack of the truth, meaning I know the answer.
He doesn't. And if he doesn't, then I've got to figure out how to, and maybe the fast way
to just shove it in his face to go dude, this is what we're doing. As opposed to getting him to
see that there might be another way of doing it, which is actually the truth, as opposed to,
it has to be exactly my way. And if there's a mind field between you and me,
I guess I could go into that mind field, but it's not going to help me get you to see something
different. And he, I think, said the quote is, resistance to the truth is inevitable.
Yeah, resistance to your ideas are inevitable. Yeah. So let's not, let's not pretend like you
might be able to avoid that resistance, that mind field, that barrier, that wall, it is there.
I just think the idea of the truth of us committing to, it is this way as opposed to, I want to
think of something a different way. Yeah. No, that's a great point because what we're really,
well, when we start talking about an in a leadership capacity, it becomes, hey, it's my idea.
And as we were talking on EF online today, it's like, my assumption is that my idea is flawed.
And I can present my idea to you, but I still presented as if not it's the truth, but it's an
idea of a possibility. Now, what's interesting is what does that do to my idea? It makes it
indirect totally. It makes it indirect. Me packaging the idea that I have as a possibility or as
a thought or an idea for me, as opposed to this is the way we should do it. It makes it in
indirect approach. And what we talked about today on EF online, I actually believe that. So I don't
have to act. I don't have to pretend like, hey, I'm going to pretend like this isn't the best
idea ever. And like Dave should just shut up and do it my way. I'm going to pretend that. So that
way, it's a little more indirect. No, I actually think, this is my idea seems like a good idea, but
there could be some holes punten to which is fine. I'm okay with that. So yeah, when we start
talking about getting people's ideas and any time you, I mean, there's very few things that I
actually hear something I've said early podcast is the amount of times that I say, Dave
brought, listen, this is what we should do. The only reason I'm going to say that is if I am a 100%
100% convicted that I, and it, it, you probably have never even heard me say that
because it's so rare. Now, look, there was times where in this EF team somebody wanted to do something
that was bad. Oh, you want to, you want to set up on two sides of a road and ambush someone in the
middle. Okay, so that means we're going to be shooting at each other. Like, this is bad. We do not want
to do that. Of course, how often did guys present to plans to me like that? Almost never. So most
of the time it was, you know, hey, think through that, but very rarely, very rarely do I have the
approach that I actually know the capital T true. Right. So this is a very good point to make.
You, you, whoever you aren't, you don't know the truth. Very seldom are you 100% convinced.
Hey, my idea is the truth. Don't walk around with that attitude. It's not good.
All right, we're getting into this next section here, which is called history as practical
experience starts off by saying, fool, say that they learn by experience. I prefer to profit by
others experience this famous saying quoted by Bismarck, but by no means original to him has
peculiar bearing on military questions for this often been remarked that the soldier, unlike
followers of other person professions, has but rare opportunities to practice his profession.
Isn't that interesting? Look, you're in the military cool. You're a professional soldier.
Awesome. How often do you actually get to do that job? The answer is not as often as a normal,
not as often as a carpenter, not as often as a plumber, not as often as a software engineer.
You might get to train for it. You might, but how often are you locked and loaded and
in combat with someone else in the military? Back to the book. Indeed, it might even be argued that
in a literal sense, the profession of arms is not a profession at all, but merely he casual
employment. And paradoxically, that it's cease to be a profession when the soldier of fortune
gave way to the professional soldier. When mercenary troops were employed and paid for the purpose of
war, were replaced by standing armies which continued to be paid when there was no war.
So if you're a mercenary, you'd be like, oh, there's a war over there, cool. I'm going to go do
that. That's kind of like a plumber. Oh, there's a different war over here, cool. I'm going to go to that one.
Oh, there's a different war over here, cool. That's a little bit more of an actual profession.
You might end up in more combat in your life than if you're in a standing army. That's doing
that job even when there's no war going on. This logical if somewhat extreme argument recalls
the excuse often made in the past for paying officers a rate inadequate to live on and by some of
those officers for doing an inadequate today's work, the contention being that the officers pay
was not a working salary but a retainer paid to him for the benefit of having his services available
in case of war. This reminds me of some of the information about the British army and how just
the officers during certain phases were just actual aristocrats that had almost no interest in fighting
wars and almost complete interest in going to the country club. Some of the, some of the
biographies of some of the guys that led the Boor war were pretty embarrassing and then they showed
up for the Boor war with pianos and just I think it's not crazy. If the argument that strictly
there is no professional arms will not hold good in most armies today on the score of work,
it is inevitably strengthened on a score of practice by the increasing for infrequency of wars.
So there's less and less wars now. Are we then left with the conclusion that armies are doomed
to become more and more amateurish in the popular bad sense of that much abused and misused word?
So hey look, if you're in the military, you're not getting to fight all the time. Does that mean you
become an amateur over time? For obviously even the best of peace training is more theoretical than
practical and experience and you know what I like? Well the reason I wasn't going to do this section
but guess what? It's the same thing with leadership. It's the same thing with leadership. You're
in a leadership position. How often are you actually in a challenging situation? In leadership?
How often do someone say hey boss, I'm not doing this. How often do someone say that I'm not
working with that person like you you end up with combative situations but how often is that?
Because normally people are hey yeah, yeah, God boss that sounds like a good plan. Like that's
what you're normally getting. You're not normally as a leader. Hopefully you're not normally being
combative. So it's the same thing. How do we train for that?
Bismarck throws a different and more encouraging lead on the problem. It helps us to realize that there are
two forms of practical experience, direct and indirect and that of the two indirect practical
experience may be more valuable because it's infinitely wider. So look you can get that experience
of dealing with a bad employee but how often do you actually deal with? How many Marines did you
have to write up? Hardly any. Yeah, ever. I mean like how many seals that I have to write up?
How many seals that I have to fire? When we're working with companies we work with companies
with thousands of employees. The combative situations are much more rare than the day to day.
Hey, this is what we're doing normal leadership. Yeah, and how often is the problem even as bad
as you think it is? You know, when we'll get questions about how do I deal with the boss who
wants my team to fail? When I say hey, if you really think about the problem, they're not,
they're often not as bad or as significant and not of the magnitude that we even make it out to be.
Even in the most active career, especially as soldiers career, the scope and possibilities of
direct experience are extremely limited in contrast to the military. The medical profession
has an assistant practice, right? They're doing a surgery a day, two surgeries a three surgeries a
yet the greatest achievements in medicine and surgery have usually been due to the research worker
and not to the general practitioner. Direct experience is inherently too limited a form
to form a secure foundation for either theory or application. So if the only combat experience
you're going to get is combat experience. You're going to be screwed. At the best, it produces an
atmosphere which is value in drying and hardening the structure of our thought. If you only have a
little bit of combat experience, that's what you become. If you don't open your mind up.
If you only have a little bit of leadership experience, that's what happens when you get
in the sealed teams. You know, we'd have on the job training leadership. That's how guys would
become that's how they'd get their leadership training. Just by watching their platoon chief or
their platoon commander. So if they weren't good, that bad example would dry and harden in their
mind and become they way they would be too because they didn't open their mind up to different
indirect experience. The greater value of indirect experience lies and it's greater variety and
extent, right? History is universal, experience the experience, not of another, but of many others
under manifold conditions. Boom. So we can learn about leadership from everywhere.
Here we have the rational justification for military history. It's preponderant, practical value
in the training and mental development of a soldier. But the benefit depends as with all experience
on its breath, on how closely it approaches the definition quoted above and on the method of studying
it. So we got to study and look the whole premise of this particular podcast is understanding human
nature, is understanding leadership by understanding how people act in war. Why is that? Why don't
we study a bunch of business cases? Well, because if you want to see human nature be revealed,
you've got to put some pressure on it. You've got to put some, there's no better pressure.
No better pressure than combat. Soldiers universally concede the general truth of Napoleon's
much quoted dictum that in war, the moral is to the physical as three to one.
Cool, yeah, we covered that on this podcast and all of Napoleon's maximums. But here we go.
The actual arithmetic proportion may be worthless from morale as apt to decline if weapons be
inadequate and the strongest will is a little use inside of a dead body. But although the moral
and physical factors are inseparable and invisible, the same gains its immortal value because it
expresses the idea of the predominance, the predominance of moral factors in all military decisions.
So obviously it's not like, okay, here's the numerical. You have this much, you have this much physical
situation, open the morale's three to one. That's not what we're talking about, but it's that idea.
On them, constantly turns the issue of worn battle and in history of war, they form the more constant
factors changing only in degree, whereas physical factors are fundamentally different in almost
every war in every military situation. That's the important part of this. That's the important
part of this. You've got the physical factors, right? The physical, but that changes. But what does
and change? The history of war, they form more constant factors to green, changing only in degree.
The physical factors go all over the place because we got machine guns, we got tanks, we got people
with night vision, like it's, there's different physical things but the, but the human nature doesn't
change. This realization affects the whole question of the study of military history for practical use.
The method in the last few generations has been to select one or two campaigns and to study
them exhaustively as means of developing both our minds and a theory of war. But the continual
changes in military means from war to war and tail a grave danger, even a certainty that our
outlook will be narrow and lessens fious. In the physical sphere, the one constant factor is that
means and condition are invariably inconsistent. So the physical stuff we can study it, like,
okay, what, how did you maneuver in a situation? How did you, what weapons did you use over here?
Well, guess what? You fast forward 30 years and we got different weapons. You fast forward six years
and we go from no night vision to all night vision. So that's what we're studying. What are we looking at?
In contrast, human nature varies but slightly in its reaction to danger, some men by race,
by environment or by training may be less sensitive than others but the difference is one of
degree, not fundamental. So people are people. The more localized the situation and our study,
the more disconserting and less count-utable is such a difference of degree. It may prevent
an exact calculation of the resistance which men will offer in any situation but it is not
impaired. The judgment that they will offer less if taken by surprise than if they are on the
alert. This is like, so it doesn't matter where you look in history. The person that's surprised
to person, the person that's on alert, you're going to get the same almost the exact same reaction.
Less if they are weary and hungry than if they are fresh and well fed. Look, we, then, we go back
thousand years, two thousand years. Well fed troops that are well rested are ready to rock and roll.
Weary, hungry, they're not. The broader, the, the broader, the psychological survey, the
better foundation in a force for deductions. So you have to look throughout history and see
all these different battles and see what the psychology of the soldiers and leaders was.
The predominance of the psychological over the physical and its greater consistency
point to the conclusion that the foundation of any theory of war should be as broad as possible.
An intensive study of one campaign, a less based upon, a less based on extensive knowledge
of the whole history of war is as likely to lead us into pitfalls as onto the peaks of military
achievement. So if you just look at one campaign and that's where you base everything on your wrong.
But if a certain effect is seen to follow a certain cause and a score or more cases in different
epochs and diverse conditions, there is ground for regarding this cause as an integral part of
any theory of war. You see something one time, it doesn't mean jack. If you see something four times
but it's all in the same campaign and the same local and the same soldiers fighting against the same
other soldiers, again it's a minimal. But when you take it over centuries or millennia and you see
the same thing over and over again, maybe you should pay attention to that one. The thesis set
forced in this book is the product of such an extensive examination. It might indeed be termed
the compound effect of certain causes these being connected with my task of military editor
for insecticolopedia or Britannica. For all I previously dealt in a various periods of military
history according to my inclination, this task compelled a general survey of all often against
my inclination. So he was the military editor for the insectolopedia or Britannica.
You know what that is, echoed Charles? Of course, yes. I'm just saying, wait, you're millennial?
No, I'm not. Jocco. Okay. Some people I bet a kid right now does not know what
the insectolopedia Britannica was. When we were kids, that was kind of it, right? That was Google.
That was Google. Yep. That was Google. Gotta go find the letter. Yes. Find. Yeah, I'm
not spying. Boom. Pull it out. There you go. And there are some letters that were like two
and one like Q and R. All right. Cool. We're good with that book. With that volume.
So this guy was the editor and the military editor. And even though previously he would just kind
of study what he wanted to study, but then all of a sudden he had to go back and study all these
other things. And he starts seeing all these continual similarities through everything he's
seeing. And here we go. He says in the survey, or even a tourist, if you will, has at least a wide
perspective and at least take in the general live land where the minor knows only his scene.
So if you if you study one war, one battle, and that's what you just go deep in that scene,
you know a lot about that one scene, but the guy that's up an altitude, surveying all land. He's
got the whole lay of the land. During this survey, one impression grew ever stronger that throughout
the age of throughout the ages, decisive results in war have only been reached when the approach has
been indirect. In strategy, the longest way round is apt to be the shortest way home.
More and more clearly has the fact emerged that a direct approach to one's mental object,
or physical objective. And he uses this term a lot as you're going to hear me read. He just
calls something the object. We always call it the objective and he actually goes into like,
why that's not a good word. So a lot of times you'll hear him say object.
More and more clearly has the fact emerged that a direct approach to one's mental object or
physical objective along the line of natural expectation for the opponent has ever tended to
and usually produced negative results. So if you take that path, that's kind of expected.
Chances are we're not going to work out well. The reason has been expressed vividly in
Napoleon's dictum that the moral is to the physical is three to one. It may be expressed scientifically
by saying that while the strength of an enemy country lies outwardly in its numbers and resources,
these are equally dependent upon stability or equilibrium of control, morale, and supply.
To move along the line of natural expectation consolidates the opponent's equilibrium and by
stiffening it, augments his resisting power. I think that comment, the one you made just a minute
to go that quote, the longest way around is the shortest way home. I think that's the piece that
that for whatever reason I think we see is the most hard to accept that. And I think my point is
probably better served by saying the opposite is also true. The shortest way around is the longest way
home. If I just get to the point, I will get to the end faster. And the opposite is true. And
just the willingness to recognize the more indirect I am. The longer this journey is to get this
other person to see the truth, the faster this is going to be. And that's such a hard thing. I think
for people to embrace, for example, you just said is the more you see me taking this direct path
towards you, the more the more dug in you will become, because you see it coming. And what I'm doing
is so much less important than how I am doing it that you won't hear anything, as I'm saying,
any of the ideas that I'm offering or any of the truth that I'm delivering. And
it will take me longer. And the, I'm a direct person. I have to tell the truth. That's just how I am
the recognition that that is the longest way. And sometimes you'll never get there.
Yep. Yeah. The way I often explain this to clients is I usually just preemptively say, I know what you're
all thinking. You all are thinking, is that doesn't sound very efficient? It'd be much more efficient
for me just to say, Dave, this is how we're doing it. He way more efficient to do that. And it's just,
like you said, it's just so hard to realize that that's the longest way home. That's the longest way home.
The line I just read to move along the line of natural expectation. That's the shortest route.
Consolidates the opponents equilibrium. So when you, when you are going where they expect you to go,
that's where they put their defenses. That's what happens. That's why in Fujitsu, you have to mess
with their balance. You have to come from a different angle. And by stiffening it,
augment its resisting power, by the way. Because when you know where I'm coming at you from, you are
ready to fight. And you know what to do to fight. In war, as in wrestling, the attempt to throw the
opponent without loosening his foothold and balance can only result in self-exhaustion,
increasing in disproportionate ratio to the effective strain put upon him.
Victory by such a method can only be possible through an immense margin of superior strength
in some form and even so tends to lose decisiveness. So if we're wrestling,
which let's face it, we're wrestling. If what we do is attempt a take down with no setup or attempt
a submission with no setup, it doesn't work. It doesn't work. Like we're training with Carrie today.
Carrie's a white belt, right? Guess what? He's a white belt been trained for a year. If you grab
his arm, you're not going to get it. You're not going to get it. You have to do something else.
You have to set him up even a white belt in Fujitsu.
In contrast, an examination of military history, not of one period, but of its whole course,
brings out the point that in almost all the decisive campaigns, the dislocation of the enemy
psychological and physical balance has been vital to a successful attempt at his overthrow.
Dislocation uses that word a lot. Dislocation. Putting people off balance, getting the
getting in their head. Not letting them, well, I guess it's the true opposite of
consolidation of equal in real. Like here I am, I'm stable. Oh, dislocated. Now I'm not where
I want to be. This dislocation has been produced by a strategic and direct approach.
Intentional or fortuitous. Sometimes people just accidentally end up off balancing somebody cool.
It may take varied forms as our analysis reveals for the strategy of the indirect approach is
inclusive of but why and but wider than the maneuver sir, sir, lay, dairy, air.
Which is French. Don't want to be human to try, but it means maneuver behind someone.
Which general came in's research is showed as being the constant aim and key method of Napoleon
in his conduct of operations. While came in was concerned primarily with the logistical moves,
the factors of time, space and communications. This analysis seeks to probe deeper into psychological
foundations and in doing so finds an underlying relationship between many strategic
operations which have no outward resemblance to a maneuver against the enemy's rear yet are.
Nonetheless, definitely vital examples of the strategy of the indirect approach.
So sometimes it doesn't look like what you're doing is an indirect maneuver, but it is.
To trace this relationship and determine the character of operations is not necessary
and is indeed irrelevant to tabulate the numerical strengths and detail the details of supply and
transport are concerned as simply with historical effects in a comprehensive series of cases
and with the logistical or psychological moves which led up to them.
If similar effects follow fundamentally similar moves in conditions which vary widely in scale,
nature and date, there's clearly an underlying connection from which we can logically deduce a
common cause and the more widely the conditions vary the firmer of this conduction, this deduction
and what he's saying there is look when you take a bunch of examples over time throughout history,
it becomes really clear that this isn't just a fluke, this is the reality of the situation
and that's so so here's what we're going to do.
So this guy is a historian and the next giant chunk of these books is he goes historical.
What was that book we read in the book where people went statistical?
Oh yeah, that's right. It was one of those world war II things. Somebody went statistical.
The officer went statistical law and he started telling me about how long officers were living.
He said the average officer is living about 5,5 hours up there. Good luck.
He went statistical law me. What B.A.S. LeDell Hart does he goes historical?
And he goes from the 5th century to the 20th century. He goes from the Greek wars, the Roman wars,
the Byzantine wars, the medieval wars, the 17th century, the 18th century, the French Revolution,
Napoleon, he gets to the first world war, the second world war, and he goes through
just detailed battles and talks about the indirect approach. And what we're going to do is
we're actually going to bypass those and there's a couple of reasons why. Number one, get the books.
Get the books. Number two. This is what we do all the time on this podcast. This is actually
what we do all the time on this podcast. We talk about Napoleon. We talk about his person Russia.
We talk about World War I. We talk about World War II. We talk about Vietnam. We talk about
Korea. And we've seen and pointed out the indirect strategy all the time. All the time. That's what we do.
We how do I usually talk about it? The flank. This is what we talked about maneuver warfare.
This is what this is about. This is what this whole podcast is about. It's these historical lessons.
And B.A. LeDell Hart. He serves them up for us in this book.
So, so if you want to get those, who knows, maybe one day we'll jump into these.
But if you want to jump into them, get the book. Get the book strategy by B.A. LeDell Hart. You can get
in-depth on these things. But what I want to do is I want to kind of jump ahead to his book
strategy where he goes into the theory of strategy. And he starts off by saying having drawn our
conclusions from analysis. Oh, by the way, the analysis that he's talking about that he draws
conclusion from is like 315 pages. So this is no, this is when he's talking about, oh, what?
You need to study all these different eras. He does it. And points out the indirect
approach and how it wins every single time. Even if it was by accident, it's what makes us win. He says,
having drawn our conclusions from analysis of history, it seems advantageous to construct on the
fresh foundation of a new dwelling house for the strategic thought. So he's looked at all these things
that have happened. And we got to kind of get, we kind of got to hit the reset button. He says,
let us first be clear on what is strategy. Clouds fits in his monumental work on war, defined it as
the art of the employment of battles as a means to gain the object of war. In other words,
strategy comes strategy forms the plan of war maps out the proposed course of the different campaigns
which compose the war and regulates the battles to be fought in each. Now, this is probably
since episode 7 of this podcast, people have been okay, you can do classmates, you can do classmates
on war, hey, you can do one more. And there's a couple of reasons why I haven't done it yet,
and I'm sure we will, and I owe it to military history to do it. But there's a couple of reasons.
One reason it's like kind of, it's such a popular one, that's hey, you know what, that's right out there,
is it really the first one I want to hit? I'd rather hit some other strategic ideas. I mean,
I guess I did do Sun Siwon war. So this is one of the excuse, maybe? I've always known
that classmates, or I always felt that classmates, you know, respect, respect,
classmates, we're giving him respect. By the way, here's why this,
classmates is no just hey military theorist, right? This is a guy that sat in a ivory tower and
fought about war. He entered the military at age 12 as a Lance Corporal. You know what I'm saying?
Like this is no joke. fought in the Ryan campaigns, fought in the Napoleonic Wars,
went to the military academy at Berlin, worked for Sean Horses, who I've talked about a bunch
on this podcast because when it comes to maneuver warfare, he's kind of that guy in the beginning
that lost with the press normie to Napoleon at the Battle of Jenna. And when he did, he looked
around and said, what the hell just happened and realized there was some decentralized, some indirect
warfare going on and started kind of making that. Well, well, CrossFit's kind of was under his wing.
And then when the Prussians made an alliance with Napoleon, CrossFit's was like no,
and he joined the Imperial Russian army. And then when they broke up that alliance, he went back
to the the Prussian army. It was a Chief of Staff of three Corps and just battles,
Napoleonic battles at the Battle of Waterloo. He was in that campaign. He was preventing
some of Napoleon's reinforcements and showing up, which obviously caused the problem.
When back was an instructor at the then the director of the military academy at Berlin,
and by the way, this whole time he's writing down what his thoughts are.
And then he ended up dying of color before he had these before he was able to complete his works.
And really before you might say, and LaDelle Hart kind of makes the assumption that he was kind
of heading in a different direction. So he's respectful but critical of CrossFit's, that's kind of,
that's, I don't want to say that's the way I've always felt, but I kind of have always felt that
way a little bit. I don't know, maybe that's because I'm a little bit of a contrarian,
but maybe more than that, CrossFit says things that I go, really, really.
And by the way, the CrossFit's mentality is kind of what brought us to World War I.
And that mentality of mass, which is what it is, premier, a principles, is like, hey, we're going to get,
I have more people than you, I'm going to win, which as we know, when we compare that to the,
principles behind light infantry, it's not what we're looking for.
There's also a connection in there too, even between what was talking about earlier,
between the physical and the moral of these physical attributes. And they vary from campaign
to campaign, which is part of the reason why you don't want to overreact to the less,
the physical lessons of a particular campaign, because even as simple as like desert warfare versus
jungle warfare, those lessons, forwarding rivers, those are physical lessons, and then they're
not that they're invaluable, but the physical principles of mass or those components are less
important. Now, one of that, the other, you have to have them both, but I was even just sitting
here thinking of when Tom Fif was here, who's talking about World War II, Korean Vietnam, not from
historical standpoint, but actually a participant standpoint. But the lessons he was talking about,
he didn't spend a bunch of time on World War II we were dealing with this physical environment. It was
the universal, the universal nature of his lessons were take care of your people.
I'm going to tell you how to look, if I listen to you on this podcast, read, that the fundamental
principle of leadership in success and battle was taking care of your people. I'm looking at
about face as I'm looking at hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of pages, and he probably has a
whole bunch of physical lessons. And it's not to say that those aren't important, but those are
never the ones that the leaders really, when they're talking about the lessons they learn and that
moral component, I'm just using moral to use the same language. It's the human nature piece
like you were talking about, and how much more important that is. And I remember even in getting a
master's degree was, was cost with sort of central to the strategic studies, and there's a
physical focus on that. And the principle of his master's a great example. And listen,
I would love to go to war with an advantage in master every time. That'd be awesome.
But we know that that's not the deciding factor. We know that.
Interestingly, as you pointed to about face, there's one book that we haven't covered on this
podcast by Colonel David Hackworth, which you would think would be just like prime. It's called
Vietnam, Vietnam primer. And Vietnam primer is a book to get you ready to go to Vietnam. And it literally
shows like, hey, here's how far out you should put your clay more. It's, it's just, we could
cover it. I'm sure we could, we could get some lessons from it. But compared to about face, not even close.
Here's the other thing that's interesting. Is that cover move, right? Cover move
the first law of combat leadership. If you're in the jungle, you better cover move. If you're in
the desert, you better cover move. If you're doing a river crossing, you better cover move. If you're
doing an assault, you better cover move. If you're in an airplane, if you're in an airplane, at 38,000
feet, AC kicking, you better cover move. So that's, I think what was weird for me was as like
cover move, and that's another thing. Cover and move. Cover and move. Movement. You win by maneuver.
You don't win by sitting still. And when you start talking about classmates and mass, it's like,
we're here. Yeah. So that's again, I'm not trying to, I'm not trying to like get crazy and
to talk smack about classmates. Like I said, if you were a Lance Corporal at age 12, I salute you,
and I will listen to what the hell you have to say 100%. But I will not, I will question anybody.
I question, I question hack worth. Read my opening. Like, there's like, hey man,
guy was not perfect. I mean, he's, he, you use him as the prime example of a lesson we teach
in business all the time is if you lose your influence, and he and, and probably the most influential
figure in your life as a leader is still your prime example of what not to do in a particular
situation. So I think the contrarian component of it is, is important. What, what, what,
crosswords is awesome, on war is awesome. There's a bunch of good stuff in there too.
For sure. And I know that you're saying that, but just a link it back to that conversation and
the human nature component and thinking about the director approach and thinking of human nature.
If you just thought before you took the director approach and anything, how would I react to
someone doing that to me? 99% of the director, and 99% of the director's assaults would go away.
If you could just take that perspective on it, unless you lied to yourself, seriously.
Yeah. Like, unless you lied to yourself, which many, many, many people will do, which is,
maybe I just want Dave just to come up. Hey, if I'm wrong, just come and tell me. Yeah.
Like, if you lied to yourself, then you, you probably just keep taking the director approach
all the time. Yeah, which is not going to work out. And if you're, if you're the person that
prides themselves in listening to other people's director's assaults on you, there's high risk
through that you are lying to yourself. Check. All right. Back to the book. One defect of this
definition that was the definition of of strategy, which was the art of employment of battles as
means to gain the object of war. So that's Karlswitz's definition. One defect of this definition
is that it intrudes on the sphere of policy or the higher conduct of war, which must necessarily
be the responsibility of government and not of military leaders. It employs as its agents
in the executive control of operations. So he's, he's going to go through this, but there's,
you know, you know, we say all the time, you can have things to teach you all the time.
That's what he's about to about to address 14 different ways. And he's going to actually go
into a chapter, I don't know if we'll get there today, but there's a higher level strategy called
Grand Strategy. And so he's thinking Grand Strategy policy. Another defect is that it narrows the
meaning of strategy to the pure utilization of battle, thus conveying the idea that battle is the
only means to the strategic end. It was an easy step for Karlswitz less profound disciples to
confuse the means with the end and to reach the conclusion that in war, in every, in war,
every other consideration should be subordinated to the aim of fighting a decisive battle.
So, so think about that. That's your attitude is like, hey, the whole purpose of strategy is
to engage in decisive battle. That's what we're doing. So then what are you doing in World War I?
You put more people on the line and you put more people on the line and you put more people on
line. You send another battalion, another brigade, another division over the top. That's what you do.
And there's people that lead like this in companies and organizations and their families,
and the way they lead is by trying to win battles. That's the way they lead.
And the commitment that every argument is a decisive battle that has to be won.
And not being able to recognize, and I think, I think he called them like inflection points or
something along the lines of the recognition of, this is where it, this is decisive. And being
able to recognize what an inflection point is in combat. As opposed to like every engagement is not
an inflection point. It's not a decisive point and being able to recognize where those points are.
And fighting those, as opposed to every single engagement, you mean the idea of picking your battles?
Hey, pick your battles. Who's been told that before? Yeah. Hey, pick your battles.
Comments seems like such common sense and yet all the time people look at every discussion,
argument, contention as the decisive battle for their echo. Yeah.
Relation of policy to break down the distinction between strategy and policy would not matter
much if the two functions were normally combined in the same person as with Frederick or Napoleon.
But, but as such, autocratic soldier rulers have been rare in modern times and became temporarily
extinct for the 19th century. The effect was in city, it's the harmful for it encouraged soldiers
to make preposterous claim that policy should be subservient to their conduct of operations. And
especially in democratic countries, it drew statesmen onto overstep the definite border of his fear
and interfere with his military employees and the actual use of their tools.
So there's gotta be a line between these two things. And we gotta stay in our lanes a little bit.
Hey, here's the policy. How do you want to execute it? Hey, here's the resources I need. Oh, don't
know change your policy. Molky reached a clearer and wiser definition in terming strategy
quote, the practical adaptation of the means placed at a general's disposal to the attainment of the
object in view. Molky is another Prussian guy chief general in the 1860s and he's the guy that kind of
I would say he had that the idea of the making sure you have an overall objective. I make sure that
people understand what the overall objective is. The German word, Alph-Trog-Stactic. No.
Overall objective. This definition fixes the responsibility of a military commander to the
government by which he is employed. His responsibility is that of applying most proactively
to the interest of higher war policy, the force allowed it to him within the theater of operations
assigned to him. If he considers that the force allowed it is inadequate for the task indicated,
he is justified in putting this out. And if his opinion is overruled, he can refuse or resign the command.
But he exceeds his rightful sphere if he attempts to dictate to the government what measure
force should be placed at his disposal. So like I said, there's a line here that he's talking about.
On the other hand, the government which formulates war policy and has to adapt to it to
conditions which often changes a war progresses can rightly intervene in the strategy of a campaign
not merely by replacing a commander in whom it is lost confidence but by modifying his
object according to the needs of its war policy. While it should not interfere with him and handling
of his tools, it should indicate clearly the nature of his task. Thus strategy has not necessarily
the simple object of seeking to overthrow the enemy's military power. When a government appreciates
that the enemy has the military superiority, either in general or in a particular theater, it may
be wise to enjoy a strategy of limited aim. Before I get into limited aim, let's tie this back
to corporate leadership and business leadership. What are you doing if you're in charge?
To make sure that you are empowering your subordinate leaders to make things happen.
And not saying, hey, here's exactly how I want you to do it. Here's what I want you to do with
your team. Here's what I want you to do with your tools. Here's how that's when you're crossing the line.
You shouldn't have to do that. You shouldn't have to have those conversations.
We should be able to say, hey Dave, this is what we're trying to make happen.
How do you want to do it? And Dave, who's on the front line, says, hey boss, here's what I'm thinking.
It looks good. Go execute. And by the way, Dave might come back saying to hey boss, we can't do that.
Unless you give me some more resources. And I say, hey, it's all we got. Sorry. And you say,
what we need to come back then, or we need to not do this market area, because we don't have the
resource. We need to, okay, cool. Or maybe I say, well, I think it's just because you suck.
You're fired echo. You got the con. Yeah. So let's make sure that we delineate the roles and
responsibilities clearly enough that we know what what we're trying to do up and down the chain of command.
Now to get back to this point of strategy of limited aim, he goes into it a little bit here.
This is the strategy of limited limited limited aim. It may desire to wait until the balance of
force can be changed by the intervention of allies or by the transfer of forces from another theater.
It may desire to wait or even limit its military effort permanently while economic or naval
action decides the issues. It may calculate that the overthrow of the enemy's military power is a
task definitely beyond its capacity and not worth the effort. And that the object of its war policy
can be assured by seizing territory, which it can either retrain, retain, or use as a bargaining
counter when peace is negotiated. So right, every one of those things is indirect.
It's a limited aim. It's like, oh, you know what? I wanted to kick Dave's ass.
But he's way bigger and way better at jujitsu than I thought he was. So you know what I'm going to do?
I'm on a like say, hey, man, instead of what us fighting, why don't I buy you a hamburger?
And we'll talk about some stuff. And what you know what I'm saying? Like it's a different,
it's just taking a different approach. It's totally different approach. We know what? I think Dave
can actually kick my ass. Echo is going to be hearing about 30 minutes. Echo is bigger and stronger
than Dave. He's been training more than just so I'm going to wait till hey, hey Dave, you
might have to wait. I'd rather have you roll with Echo. Right, so I'm bringing in some reinforcements.
That's the strategy of limited, limited aim. Such a policy has more support from history than
military opinion has recognized and is less inherently a policy of weakness than some apologists.
And, by so just because I say, you know what Dave, I'm not really looking to roll with your
way to let go gets here. That's not necessarily weak. In fact, it might be smarter. In fact,
if I think you can beat me and I'm pretty sure you're going to beat me, it's way smarter for me
to wait till Echo shows up to kick your ass. It isn't indeed bound up with the history of the
British Empire and repeatedly proved a life buoy to Britain's allies as well as of the permanent
benefit to herself. However, unconsciously followed, there's ground for inquiry, whether this
conservative military policy does not deserve to be accorded a place in the theory of the
conduct of war. So how often did Britain go, you know what? Maybe we don't want to fight that war.
Maybe we want to give that up. Maybe we want to give that area. Maybe we need it's bargain and
move into an area that we know we can take and then we'll negotiate for it back later.
The more usual reason for adopting a strategy of limited aim is that of awaiting a change in
the balance of force waiting till Echo shows up. A change often sought and achieved by draining
the enemies' force weakening him by tricks instead of risking blows. What if, well, you know what?
Hey, Dave, I don't, you know, I don't really want to roll today. Echo is going to be here in a little while,
but while you're waiting, launch a roll a couple rounds with Kerry and launch a roll a couple rounds
with Dean and then so here you are fighting all these battles by the time Echo Charles shows up
fresh. He's just had a discipline go. He's ready to rock and roll your tired, your nine rounds deep.
That's my, that's a great plan. Great plan. So I weakened you by tricks instead of risking blows.
The essential condition of strategy, such a strategy is that the drain on him should be disperse
portionetly greater than all oneself because I was sitting over on the corner keeping time.
That's what I was doing while you were rolling with guy after guy after guy. I'm keeping track of time for you.
The object may be sought by rating his supplies by local attacks, which annihilator and flick
disperse portionet loss on parts of his force by lowering him into unprofitable attacks,
by causing an excessively wide distribution on his force and no least by exhausting his moral and physical
energy. This is like the exact example, right? I don't think I can kick your ass, but you know what,
Echo is going to be here in a little while and in the meantime, I'm going to entice, I'm going to go,
hey, hey Dean, go get a couple rounds. Go, go, go get a couple rounds of Dave, boom, and just rough you up
and going to hit you with a couple different people by the time Echo shows up, no factor.
That's what I'm doing. Yeah, and I'm also thinking of just the idea of even going to war with
the American military and most of our opponents, certainly more recent history, the aim wasn't
to destroy the American military. It was to make those series of little tricks over time become
intolerable where we are no longer willing to have these little successive losses. So we're not
going to have that decisive campaign at all because you made this intolerable for me and that connection
of policy too. We talked about that all the time of, you know, the will, you know, somebody's will
to be doing that as, hey, I don't want to keep doing this over and over again. These small little
things, these little, those things add up over time, as opposed to like somehow the objective is
we're going to have a force on force, you know, culminating event between some military and the
American military, which, which, again, generically speaking, nobody wants that. We want to have a
decisive engagement with the American military. So we're going to do some other things instead
and make that intolerable for us. Which, by the way, we suck in many areas of this, the United
States in general, think of the propaganda damage that gets done to us on a regular basis that
has been done to us on a regular basis, basically since Vietnam. Anytime we get into, I mean,
anytime we get into a conflict now, the propaganda that is used to turn us against ourselves and
this country is, it's, it's crazy how effective it is. You, you look at the Vietnam War,
it's crazy how effective they were at turning Americans against Americans in that war. Yeah.
Back to the book. This closer definition, Sheds light on the question previously raised of a
General's Independence in carrying out his own strategy inside his theater of operations.
For if the, for if the government has decided upon a limited aim or grand strategy, the general who,
even within his strategic fear seeks to overthrow the enemy's military power, may do more harm
than good to the government's war policy. So what is that saying? That saying like, I got
Dave out there. He's super aggressive and he's like, you know what I'm going to, I'm going to take this whole
area. And meanwhile, I'm thinking, Dave, don't take that whole area, then we're going to have to occupy it.
I don't have the people to occupy it. And now we're going to cause more problems. So just because
you're winning doesn't mean you're winning. Yeah. Usually a war of limited aim, a war policy
of limited aim imposes the strategy of limited aim. And a decisive aim should only be adopted
with the approval of the government, which alone can decide whether it is worth the candle.
Old school expression. I didn't really know what it meant. I had to look it up.
Worth the candle means we're going to do something is what we're doing worth the candle, that
the light it's going to take to for us to be able to do whatever we're doing. Yeah.
Because it weren't the candle. Like we're going to, oh, we got some work to do tonight.
Cool, light the candle. But how much are we really going to get done?
It's not worth the candle. It's back in the day. Kind of like it's the juice worth the squeeze.
Exactly. We can now arrive at a shorter definition of strategy as quote,
the art of distributing and applying military means to fulfill the ends of policy and quote.
For strategy is concerned not merely with the movement of forces as it rolls off and defined,
but with the effect. When the application of the military instrument merges into actual
fighting the dispositions for and control of such direct action are termed tactics. The two categories
of low convenient for discussion can never be truly divided into separate compartments
because each, not only influences but merges into the other, which is why leadership strategy
in taxes is called leadership strategy and tactics. Kind of convenient that it worked out that way.
But listen, here's what's important. Is what we're doing? It doesn't matter. What matters is
how it ends up. What matters is the strategic effect. That's why we have to think strategic all the
time. That's what we need to do. Next section, higher or grand strategy. As tactics in,
as tactics is an application of strategy on a lower plane, so strategy is an application on a
lower plane of grand strategy. So he goes to one level up, a whole other thing. We got tactical,
we got operational, he isn't really talking about operational. That must be a modern thing.
Tactical, operational, strategic and then grand strategy. While practically synonymous with policy,
what was your, would you study in college? Policy. Thanks, what's up, man? You want to chime in a little
bit. I do. Let's know. You're rolling, man. But I mean, there's so much class was he and stuff in there.
But the previous comment, it was, as I'm thinking of sort of like the business alignment of this,
this military concept is, how often are we engaged in tactical battles that don't
promote or support the strategic goal? And I think it was, I think it was the debris podcast, but you said
this is, if what you were doing, if the tactical engagement you're in supports the big picture
strategy, it's not tactical, it's strategic. And if it doesn't, it's tactical and you're engaged,
you shouldn't be doing it. Like how often do we dig in on these these small things that even
then the end, if we win, don't reinforce the big picture goal, the objective. And how often do I
on with my team, the marketing team dig in on how I want to do this, this thing and I'm going to fight
with the, the sales team over resources and supplies and equipment and priority that don't actually
help the company, the company achieve some sort of success. I'm being able to look at that as a
leader and go and, A, A, listen, this doesn't matter. This, we don't need to dig in here, let them
have this, we're playing the longer game here because what we want is the company to win. And how
hard it is for us to decouple this idea that every battle is a strategic, it's not very few of
my career. Absolutely. For the role of grand strategy, higher strategy is to coordinate and
direct all the resources of a nation or band of nations towards the attainment of a political
object of the war, the goal defined by fundamental policy. Grand strategies should both
calculate and develop to economic resources and manpower of nations in order to sustain fighting
services also the moral resources. For the foster, the people's willing spirit is often as important
as to possess more concrete forms of power, which is why you need to pay attention to what's going
on in your country when it comes to propaganda that's being used against you. Grand strategy
too should regulate the distribution of power between the several services and between the services
and industry. Moreover, fighting power is but one of the instruments of grand strategy, which
should take account of and apply the power of financial pressure, diplomatic pressure, commercial
pressure and least of ethical pressure to weaken the opponent's will. A good cause is a sword as
well as armor. Likewise, shivalry in war can be a most effective weapon in weakening the opponent's
will to resist as well as augmenting moral strength. This is why we always say take the high ground
of the high ground. Take the high ground of the good causes as a sword as well as armor.
When you give up the high ground, when you get down into the mud and I think there's a quote,
you references when you get down into the mud, you're not getting muddy because somebody's
throwing mud at you is because you went down there and how hard it is once you've got up the
high ground to get back up onto the high ground. When you give that up, back to the book further
more while the horizon of strategy is bounded by the war. Grand strategy looks beyond the war
to the subsequent peace. It should not only combine the various instruments but so regulate their
use as to avoid damage to the future state of peace for its security and prosperity. The
sorry state of peace for both sides that is followed most wars can be traced to the fact that
unlike strategy, the realm of grand strategy is for the most part Terra in Kognita.
Still awaiting exploration and understanding that means unknown territory. So this is
this is beyond thinking strategic and it's kind of the way we turn thinking strategic you know
if you and I have a relationship and I'm going to bark in order you where does that get me?
Even if you do that thing where does it put us in the future? How is our relationship?
If we have a client and we decide you know what we're going to bill them anyways even though they
didn't you know they didn't participate but we're going to bill them anyways. How's that
gonna work out for us to cool? We get a little bit more money right now. How does that how does that
affect us in a year when that client needs help? So the grand strategy looks beyond the war to
subsequent peace. How often are we doing that? Looking further in the future.
Goes into pure or military strategy. Having cleared the ground we can build up our conception
of strategy on its proper plane and original basis that of the art of the general. Strategy depends
for success first and foremost, first and foremost, first sorry first and most on a sound
calculation and coordination of the ends and means of the end and means. The end must be
proportioned to the total means and the means used in gaining each intermediate end which
contributes to the ultimate must be proportioned to the value and the needs of that intermediate
end whether it be to gain an objective or fulfill a contributory purpose and excess may be as harmful
as a deficiency. So that's first of all that's a freaking run on sentence but what's the second
fall? But second of all it's important because what he's saying is you should constantly be assessing
if if the juice is worked the squeeze you should constantly be saying like listen we're going to
put this much effort towards this client or going to put this much effort towards this relationship
we're going to put this much effort towards this team who's we don't know how they're going to do
so you constantly have to check yourself if the end that you're going towards is your investment
worth it. What's the ROI? And by the way spending too much it can be as bad as not spending enough
totally and and spending a much to to win a particular battle or win a particular war but you
spent so much that you look around and go well that was not the juice wasn't worth the squeeze
wasn't worth the candle yeah what are we accomplished and that that next level up to grand strategy
and of course I think the connection he's making is on this large scale man I literally took a
class called American grand strategy and the military is a is a component of all these other
things you named a bunch of them diplomatic you know uh uh uh eacon obviously it's a whole bunch of
different tools that are inside there that are actually you know they're all connected but the
military is one arm of that one of many of course you're in uniform you think the whole world
of all's round military power we know we say it all the time we know that's not true but an example
that you use we all the time and in just trying to explain this idea of utilizing resources and
making decisions when you talk about means our means everybody has limited means we don't have
unlimited means or unlimited resources and if I'm looking at this particular area that
I want to open up a shop here open up a couple of locations and this physical you know this
geographic area to compete with our uh competitors and I take all of my resources every penny I've
got every tool I've got and I get in there co-baker go home that's right and in the end we get in there
we get in that region and I don't know it doesn't quite work out or even if it does but we now have
no other tools and resources do anything else the larger piece that is the strategy isn't to get
into that area the strategy is actually to make our company stronger and that limited understanding
or that understanding being limited of hey we're here to take over this region if that is not
connected to the company being successful that larger piece of it all the all the means are all the
resources to getting into that area they don't help you. It's a waste you burn that candle yeah
yeah and you know what's interesting is from a leadership this is a total this is a leadership
capital discussion right it's hey is it worth me expanding this leadership capital on getting
gave to follow my order on getting gave to you know pick up a client that I know is going to be
painful and I'm forcing them to do it and whatever whatever the case may be is it worth that leadership
capital we we have to weigh that out and you know when you were talking about oh we got the the
diplomatic we got the the commercial pressure the financial pressure the ethical pressure all those
things and the military's part of that guess what in from a leadership perspective the military
thing is hey this is my rank I outrank you and we're just going to go by force that's what
course that should be there's six seven eight twelve other components that I can utilize as a
leader to make something happen and the worst one to use the one that cost me the most leadership
capital is the military one which is my rank which is hey on the boss you should you listen to me
to to compel someone through the threat of force as you're only tool to get them to comply the
threat of force and even you know the the the moral high ground I mean how convenient would it be
if you and I are in a situation looking at something and mine was the moral approach and yours
is the immoral approach which requires no money no time no resources no equipment to go oh you know
I hey listen if we do this we take the if we take the unethical and we get found out and
someone just goes oh hey man you're right you know you look listen man I was you're right we
we need to do just we just need to do the right thing here the the the strategic win from that alone
or the obstinate of the spectrum the military end is I come I threw force and demand and through
risk of of destruction yeah is how I'm getting you to to behave in a way that helps the team yeah
I've got this quote later on and I don't even remember where I got the quote from but I talked
about on this podcast maybe I talked about it in your phone line it's it's something along
the lines of cool you win and now you're in charge of a wasteland great oh yeah you won the
war cold now you have burnt scorched earth that's what you have cool good job what did you win nothing
yeah back to the book a true all this is a true adjustment would establish a perfect economy of force
in the deeper sense of that off distorted military term so all the time we heard the term you know
economy of force but because of the nature and uncertainty of war and uncertainty increased by
lack of scientific study even the greatest military ability could not achieve a true adjustment
and success lies in the closest approximation to the truth again his use the word truth is a little
bit is a little bit broad but what he's talking about is like how much should I apply to this how
much force should I apply we want to apply the minimum force required but we're not going to be
perfect with that so we want to get his closest we can this relativity is inherent because however
our knowledge and of the science of war be extended it will depend on the art for its application
art cannot only bring the end near to the means but by giving a higher value to the means and
enable the end to be extended this complicates calculation because no man can exactly calculate the
capacity of human genius and stupidity nor the incapacity of will so there's all these things
that we have to account for as leaders you know and we're and we're not going to get it perfectly right
but how close can we get it? Next section elements and conditions in strategy however
calculation is simpler and a closer approximation to truth possible than in tactics so this is a very
interesting point it's easier to calculate big broad strategic things because you're a little bit
further away from the human component for an war the chief and calculs is human will which
manifests itself in resistance which in turn lies in the province of tactics strategy has not to
overcome resistance except from nature its purposes to diminish the possibility of resistance
and it seeks to fulfill this purpose by exploiting the elements of movement and surprise
now that's cool and everything I would say that there's definitely that's a stretch because we've seen
collect the collective will of a people change the outcome of strategic situations for sure
so even though I said hey it's it's closer to it still can have a huge impact I mean
look at Vietnam it was like oh well we can beat them because we can kill 150 Vietnamese soldiers
and via Kong soldiers for every one of our people that killed so well win no actually we won't win
because guess what the act their collective will is freaking incredibly strong yeah
but movement and surprise movement lies in the physical sphere and depends on calculation
of the conditions of the time topography and transport capacity by transport capacities meant both
of both the means by which and the measure in which force can be moved to maintain okay so there's
the physical sphere sphere of movement surprise lies in the psychological sphere and depends on
a calculation of far more difficult than in the physical sphere of the manifold conditions varying
in each case which are likely to affect the will of the opponent so you got two things you've
got movement and you've got surprise this is how we're gonna kind of win this is how we're gonna
win by movement and surprise movement physical surprise psychological although strategy may
a more at exploiting movement than at exploiting surprise or conversely the two elements react
on each other so even though they're different spheres they're still closely woven together
movement generates surprise and surprise gives impetus to movement so this is jujitsu right if you
surprise somebody they have to react to it so you can make someone move by surprising them with
something for a movement which is accelerated or changes its direction inevitably carries with it
a degree of surprise even though it be concealed while surprise smooths the path of movement
by hindering the enemies countermeasures and counter movements so if I surprise you don't
on time to react to you're not defending it yeah this obviously not something this guy was
thinking about when I think about flying and stealth airplanes the psychology of that is
what I what I have discovered and it's true not just an airplane and true in every situation
more often than not people's reaction to being surprised is not the right reaction they don't
usually react well even when they react it's still like an overreaction under reaction
think about how you react it when you're surprised are those usually like good smooth effective
responses 100% yeah all the time and when when you look at stealth airplanes the advent of
Americans showing up with stealth airplanes and and sort of the culminating event really was in
desert storm when nobody even knew we had them and all of a sudden stealth airplanes are over
bad dad dropping bombs and the Iraqis didn't under they did not understand what was happening
and the reaction was obviously wrong now you know that they're proliferated that's why
an un a significantly undersized force when you're flying around the stealth aircraft
and then I'm fighting against you and your conventional aircraft and the first call you here
is hey the the first four of your airplanes are all dead and and the psychological response to that
is almost always the wrong response the reaction they they behave eratically they move
and different right they they don't know what to do the psychological response to surprise is
almost always the wrong reaction and the power of creating that reaction your opponents is really
hard to overstate and that's really one of the things that stealth airplanes have allowed us to do
is get our opponents to behave incorrectly to give us an even more of an advantage you're going to
off balance them somehow because what you just said when you say they either overreactor under
react guess what you either you're off balance right a balanced measured response would be like
okay we didn't really get them off balance but you either overreactor you under react
and through surprise you cause them to move to far in one direction too far in the other
direction that's what's going to happen and that's what we're going to take advantage of and you've
explained this a ton like if I attack your arm and you under react to a point where you do not
almost don't react at all and you just let me have it then I may actually culminate with an arm bar
but more than likely you're going to overreact and I want you to overreact in it so I can attack
something else but it's like you said it's it's the lack of a balance response it's usually an
overreaction usually that reveals a weakness somewhere else that I can then explain you know
as regards the relation of strategy attacks while in execution the border line is often shadowy
and it is difficult to decide exactly where a strategic movement ends and a tactical movement begins
yet in conception the two are distinct tactics lies in the fills tactics lies and fills the
province of fighting strategy not only stops on the frontier but has for its purpose the reduction of
fighting by the slendorist possible proportions so the purpose of strategies to not fight
because on with the aim of strategy this statement may be disputed by those who conceive
the destruction of the enemies armed force as the only sound aim in war who hold that the only
goal of strategy is battle and who obsessed with the clouds vizzi and saying that blood is the
price of victory yet if one should concede this point and meet its advocates on their own ground
the statement would remain unshaken for even if decisive battle be the goal the aim of strategy
must be to bring about this battle under the most advantageous circumstances and the more
advantageous the circumstances the less proportionally will be the fighting so whole goal of strategies
we're not fighting that's what we're doing the perfection of strategy would be therefore to produce a
decision without any serious fighting history now think about that from a leadership perspective
I never get an argument because Dave's doing what I need him to do to make it happen
that's the most effective strategy it's not how do I outwit David and argument that doesn't matter
why am I having an argument history as we have seen provides examples where strategy help by
favorable conditions has virtually produced such a result and he goes through some examples here
and again he's recalling back to some of the examples that he talks about in the book
while these cases where the destruction of the enemy's forces the enemies armed forces
was economically achieved through the disarming by surrender such destruction may not be essential
for a decision and for the fulfillment of the war aim in the case of a state that is seeking
not conquest but maintenance of its security the aim is fulfilled if the threat be removed
if the enemy is led to abandon his purpose with such while such blood this victories have been exceptional
their rarity enhances rather than detracts from their value
as an indication of latent potentialities in strategy and grand strategy despite many
centuries of experience of war we have hardly begun to explore the field of psychological warfare
from deep study of war clouse fits was led to the conclusion that quote all military action is
permeated by intelligent forces and their effects
nevertheless and quote nevertheless nations at war have always driven or been driven by their
passions to disregard the implications of such a conclusion instead of applying intelligence they
have chosen to batter their heads against the nearest wall so here's Karlswick's okay it's
it's an intelligence you know what doing but all the time we countries people leaders teams
we get we do stupid things we bang our head against the nearest wall because we get emotional
we're not intelligent and we gotta look out for that
it rests normally with the government responsible for the grand strategy of awarded decide
whether strategy should make its contribution by achieving a military decision or otherwise
just as military means is only one of the means to the end of grand strategy one of the instruments
in the surgeon's case so battle is only one of the means to the end of strategy
if the conditions are suitable it usually it is usually the quickest and effect
but if conditions are unfavorable it's a folly to use so cool you can go to battle
but if you haven't prepared for it and you don't have the advantage it's stupid
let's assume that a strategist is empowered to seek a military decision his responsibility is to
seek it under the most advantageous circumstances in order to produce the most profitable result
hence his true aim is not so much to seek battle as to seek a strategic situation so
advantageous that if it does not of itself produce the decision its continuation by battle is sure to
achieve this so we're not engaging in battles that we don't know we're gonna win and if we
know we're gonna win them why can't we convince them opponent that we're gonna win and they
bow down in other words dislocation is the aim of strategy it's sequel maybe either the
enemy's dissolution or his easier disruption in battle dissolution may involve some
partial measure of fighting but this is not but this is not the character of battle so that's
what we're trying to do we're trying to win the fight without fighting we're trying to win the
argument without having it I'm trying to get Dave what I to do what I wanted to do without
him even knowing that that's what I want to do it's with his idea yeah and think about that statement
about you getting me to do do it do it you want me to get done without fighting with me
and take a step away from this book which is talking about fighting your enemies like your
literal enemies to someone on your team my team my guy yeah because the human nature doesn't
change it doesn't change if we're in the jungle desert if we're in if there's an old 42 if we're
in 1916 if we're in 1942 it doesn't matter if you're my enemy or you're my friend if there's
a component of human will then we need to utilize these principles effectively.
Next section action of strategy how is the strategic dislocation produced
in the physical or logistical sphere it is the result of a move which a upsets the enemies
dispositions and by compelling a sudden change of front dislocates the distribution and
organization of his forces be separates his forces kind of got a little little little little
tingle in my spine when I saw that and dangers his supplies
de-menaces the root or roots by which he could retreat in case of need and reestablish himself on
the base so this there's these ways that we can cause strategic dislocation
a dislocation may be produced by one of these effects but is more often a consequence of several
right we're going to we're going to dislocate them from multiple different directions
differentiation indeed is difficult because a move directed toward the enemies rear tends to combine
these effects their respective influence however varies and has varied throughout history according
the size of armaged and complexities of their organization with armies which live on the country
drawing their supplies locally by plunder or requisition the line of communication has negligible
importance so if you got an army that's out there living off the land they kind of know what they're
doing you can't you can't really cut their supply lines because they don't have any
even if a higher even in a higher stage of military development the smaller a force the
less dependent it is on the lines of communication for supplies for larger an army and more
complex its organization the more prompt and serious in effect is a menace to its line of
communication so depending on who you're fighting you gotta make some adjustments
where armies have not been so dependent strategies been correspondingly handicapped and the
technically issue of battle has played a greater part nevertheless even thus handicapped able
strategists have frequently gained a decisive advantage previous to battle by menacing the
enemies lines of retreat the equilibrium of his dispositions or his local supplies so we're doing
so we're we're throwing people off the spy mess and we're just supply chain by messing with
their communication and by the way I'm probably gonna mention it's 15 15 thousand more times
he's talking all the time about disrupting your enemies communication each one of those is the red cell
the red team for us to go man am I communicating properly every time you hear that's one of the
main ways that the indirect approach works is by disrupting the enemy communication what is that
tell us about our communication it tells us it's freaking critical he goes into some some
talk about how to disrupt communication to be effective such a menace usually must be applied at
a point closer in time and space to the enemy's army than a menace to his communication
and thus early in warfare it's often difficult to distinguish between strategic and tactical maneuver
in the psychological sphere dislocation is the result of the impression on the commander's mind
of the physical effects which we have listed the impression is strongly accentuated if his realization
of being at a disadvantage is sudden and if he feels that he is unable to counter an enemy's move
psychological dislocation fundamentally springs from his sense of being trapped
that's straight out of like the jujitsu world and this is important so we feel
we feel dislocated we feel nervous when we get trapped guess what you should never do as a leader
hey Dave I know you want to do this but what if that happens why am I trapping him
why am I trapping you don't trap people that are on your team that's another little red cell
little red team if you're if I set you up to trap you you're gonna be uncomfortable you're gonna
get defensive you're gonna be unstable and my interest in interacting with you the next time
you know like oh here we go let's see what what jacco's gonna try to do to me this time
talking about loyalty and respect and the things that you actually want from me in the end
you know when when when you're the leader that likes to set your people up so you can hammer them
dude that's a classic like I won that argument cool and that argument man I don't have to
even like a gypshoon that meeting good job he won't want to step up again
this is the reason why it is most frequently followed a physical move on the enemy's rear
an army like a man cannot properly defend its back from a blow without turning around to use
its arms in a new direction turning temporarily unbalances an army as it does a man and with the
former the period of instability is inevitably much longer in consequence the brain is much more
sensitive to any menace to its back this is why in jacco what are we trying to do we're trying
to attack the back that's why in the battlefield we're trying to we're trying to come around to the
rear because they have to maneuver and face you and they're exposed in contrast to move directly
on an opponent consolidates his balance physical and psychologically and by consolidating it
increases his resisting power when I attack you from the front you know exactly what's
that coming at you and you can resist it more what does that mean from the leadership perspective
that means that I I don't want to have you resist my ideas by coming right at you
for in the case of an army it rolls the enemy back towards the reserve supplies and reinforcement
so the original front is driven back and warn thin new layers are added to the back so
when you if you make the enemy retreat well guess what this is what the Russians did to Napoleon and to
the Nazis we're just gonna retreat yeah yeah you could job you beat us today cool we just got closer
to our supply chain yeah we just got more reinforcements our communication lines got got shorter
you made our job easier at the most it imposes a strain rather than producing a shock
thus a move around the enemy's rear against the move around the enemy's front against his rear
has the aim not only avoiding resistance on its way but in its issue in the profound
distance it takes the line of least resistance the equivalent in this psychological sphere is the
line of least expectation they are two faces of the same coin this is to widen our understanding of
strategy if we merely take what obviously appears the line of least resistance its obvious
ness will appeal to the opponent also and this line may no longer be the line of least resistance
used it when we used to go on weak hands reconnaissance missions and we'd get put on
reconnaissance missions like I camp penaltent and you get up to camp penaltent and you're
supposed to be observing some area and there's a one spot to observe there's like one bush
you're like we can it's so tempting to go to that bush we guess exactly where the they're
going to look they're going to look at that bush so you're better off digging a hole doing
whatever you got to do taking the worst looking bush you know there's four bushes three of them are
pretty good one of them socks go to the one that sucks
in studying the physical aspect we must never lose sight of those psychological and when both are
combined is the strategy truly an indirect approach calculated dislocate the opponent's balance
the mere action of marching indirectly toward the enemy and on the rear of his dispositions
is not constituted the strategic indirect approach so just because you try and come around the rear
doesn't mean because if that's what they think you're going to do it doesn't matter strategic
card is not so simple such an approach may start by being an indirect relation to an enemy's front
but by the very directness of its progress towards the rear may allow the enemy to change
his dispositions so that soon becomes a direct approach on a new front check
because of the risk that the enemy may achieve such a change of front it is usually necessary
for the dislocating move to be preceded by a move or moves which can best be defined as the term
distract in a literal sense to draw a sunder so we have to do multiple moves just like in
jujitsu you can't just do one move you can't recently you can't really even just do two you
got to do multiple moves to make the enemy not sure what's really important what's really going on
and you know I was I was doing a little bit of research because I always people will sometimes bring
up d day what about d day front all assault right yep yeah kind of guess what the deception
that the allied forces did to make Hitler and the Nazis unaware I think it was something like
I don't think Hitler committed all of his forces to Normandy for seven weeks because they were
expecting general patent that was the whole big scam like hey we got patent he's going to come in
this other spot and and so for seven weeks the Nazis were like no don't commit so even though it was
they looked like a direct assault there was a massive fake going on that that Germany didn't commit
their forces for seven weeks that's crazy so it looked like a frontal assault I get it but man
there was some distraction going on well just like he was he was just saying it's it's it's only
a frontal assault if the enemy recognizes this is a frontal assault and then lines up his defenses
against that frontal assault and the psychology of that the human nature reaction is the thing
that actually matters the most is your response to my interaction and if you think it's a frontal
assault they're going to react like it's a frontal assault and you're going to dig in and it was like
something's going something's going on here and like actually it's a frontal assault you don't know
it's a yeah it's a isn't a frontal assault it's a flank because they are putting their defenses elsewhere
yeah the purpose of this distraction is to deprive the enemy of his freedom of action and it should
operate both the physical and psychological fear spheres in the physical it should cause a
distension of his forces or their diversion to unprofit lens of that they are too widely distributed
and to commit it elsewhere who's exactly what D.A. was to have the power of interfering with one's
own decisively intended move which was we're going to hit it in the psychological fear sphere
the same effect is sought by playing upon the fears this the fears of and by deceiving the opposing
command stone wall jacks an athlete of expressed this in his strategic gomato mystify mislead and
surprise for to mystify and mislead constitutes distraction while surprise is the essential cause of
dislocation is through the distraction of the commander's mind that the distraction of his forces
follows the loss of his freedom of action is the sequel to the loss of his freedom of conception
a more profound appreciation of how the psychological permeates and dominates the physical
fear sphere has an indirect value for it warns us of the fallacy and shallowness of attempting to
analyze and theorize about strategy in terms of mathematics to treat it quantitatively as if
the issue turned merely on superior concentration of force at a selected place is as faulty as
to treat it geometrically as a matter of lines and angles not just numbers even more remote from the
truth because in practice it usually leads to a dead end is the tendency of textbooks to treat war
as mainly a matter of concentrating superior force in his celebrated definition of economy of force
fock termed this the art of pouring out all one's resources at a given moment on one spot of making
use there of all truths and to make such a thing possible of making those troops permanently
communicate with each other instead of dividing them and attaching to each fraction some fixed
in invariable function its second part a result having been attained is the art of again so
disposing the troops as to converge upon and act against a single new objective and quote
it would have been so there's the there's the economy force like hey we're going to put all of our
forces in the right spot at the right time which we all know we learn that all the time and that's
part of prioritize an execute that is part of prioritize an execute is listen you got multiple things
you need to concentrate your forces on unobjective efficiently it would have been more exact and
he's kind of take upon a little a little hit on this quote from from fock who by the way this is
burden and a burden and fock this is the the French allied commander world war one so we kind of
already aren't super stoked on him because guess what he did he carried out his strategy
hey well gotta get more forces as we're gonna do concentrate all force will be blow that whistle
we're gonna break through this time no here's why it would have been more exact and more lucid to
say that an army should always be so distributed distributed that its parts can aid each other
and combine to produce the maximum possible concentration of force at one place while the minimum
force necessary is used elsewhere to prepare the success of the concentration this is what
cover movies this is what cover movies is you and and there's a doctrinal term and I used to tell
this the young seals is a doctrinal term called supporting distance and what supporting distance is you
Dave and me your platoon and my platoon or your company and my company or your battalion and my
battalion we aren't gonna get so far apart that we can't support each other so that means if
if we only have rifles we're gonna be 400 500 yards from each other you know depending on the
terrain if the terrain is you know mountainous or we might be closer than that because I want to
be able to provide support to you if we have mortars cool now we can stretch it out a little bit more
if we have our teller we can stretch it out even more but we need to be able to
cover and move for each other we need to be able to support each other and if we get too far apart
you're alone man we had a term that we got to coin it was called fluid mutual support
which is we when you say we got to coin this expand bro it's so this is when you can
good deal Dave well over here making stuff up listen well listen when we at Top Guns
figured out like we used to have just superior equipment superior technology better machines more
of them they worked better and we were fighting and I think I talked about this a while ago we were
firing and fighting an inferior opponent to be totally honest with you our tactics were kind of
straightforward they just wasn't that complicated and we didn't just like barge right in there and
fight them but you know our tactics relied on the fact that in the end our stuff was better than
your stuff and it's flown correctly well over time we couldn't rely on that anymore they're
equipment got better than ours they were able to do things we couldn't do and what we had to
start doing is taking that same equipment and start to utilize them differently and one of
things we had to get away from was cover move for airplanes used to be a thousand feet away
2000 feet away and you stay together I turn you turn you I go you go and your job is a wingman
and how I grated your performance as a wingman as how well you stayed inside that what we called
visual visual visual sports and if you lost sight of me believe me we you were going to hear about
in the debrief and what we evolved to was because of inferior equipment we had to actually get
farther away from each other so in simple as terms we could figure out who is the person who is
the aircraft in the formation that was fundamentally the most at risk or the most likely to be engaged
and the other aircraft could then flank or maneuver or come in from a different three-dimensional
direction to support that person and it was fluid because it changed it wasn't exactly on the 35 degree
bearing line at five miles it evolved based on weather based on weapons based in the formation
and just like you described it and I had to know and if I got too far away I couldn't support you and if I was too close to
you I couldn't maneuver in a way that allowed me to have an advantageous entry to the problem I flank
because I was too close to you and while you were talking about that I was just thinking of
the French approach to older one this culminating thing versus just the standard combined arms effect
oh cool I don't need a million tanks I got a couple tanks so you don't want to rock
to the tanks cool they're going to run you over you want to rock to the tanks cool come
out your holes we're going to get your their children you don't want to deal with their
artillery you're going to dig in cool I'll roll over the aircraft and I don't need an
overwhelming force of any of those three but I need them together in support of one another
and I don't know in the end who's going to get the kill or who's going to be the reason why I'm
successful but you're going to have to react to something and if you don't one of those different
arms those different supporting elements will eventually be the thing that causes you to lose
supporting distance covered move and and now fluid mutual support we better I'm going to do it
I should have known that I was going to totally submarine your goals of getting through this by
talking way too much I planned for this so we'll wrap it up with another paragraph and then we'll
we'll do the next on the next podcast here's where he's going to break down Fox statement a little
bit he says wind because Fox said the art of pouring all one's resources so so ladel hard says
the concentrate all is an unrealizable ideal and dangerous even as a hyperbole
moreover in practice the minimum necessary maybe a far larger portion of the total
than maximum possible they would even be true to say that the larger the force that is effectively
used for distraction of the enemy the greater the chance of the concentration succeeding in its aim
for otherwise it may strike an object to solid to be shattered this is like um
in jujitsu if you if I try and sweep you but it's I'm not really trying to sweep you you don't even
have to react to it I have to really try and sweep you then if I really try and sweep you then you
expose your neck boom cool you stick your neck out to you you know you push into me and boom there's
your neck I can get the guillotine if I don't actually put enough force to get but if I put too much
force into that well and you defend it well well now I've used a bunch of energy didn't work
and how often am I going to do that so we have to be careful and what he's saying is you want to
use it's what we talk a lot about a lot about edescalum front which is minimum force required
well like how much force do I need to use to get you to react and if if I only have to use you know
10% of my force over here to get you to react that means I have 90% of my force to finish
you finish the job on the flank closing this out superior weight at the intended decisive
point does not suffice unless that point cannot be reinforced in time by the opponent
yeah you can you can put a bunch I can go for your arm but if you're going to grab with your
other arm and defend it well it doesn't matter that I singled out your arm it rarely suffices
unless that point is not merely weaker numerically but has been weakened morally
Napoleon suffered some of his worst checks because he neglected this guarantee and the need for
distraction has grown with the delaying power of weapons so there you go that's a warm-up
with almost two and a half hours deep right now we're talking it's it's only going to get deeper from here
let's let's call it for right now let's get into some I don't know echo Charles maybe the
anything any closing statement safe all right let's let's roll into a little little quick activity with
you know maybe a little bit of support sure you know I know we're trying to be indirect but
maybe there's some direct ways we can kind of help ourselves out sure what you got or some help in our
on our path which includes being indirect as far as effectiveness goes concur yeah so let's talk
with our friend Kerry and you and I just kind of come to realize that this path is not that hard anymore
it's hard but it's not as hard you're taking my Vapath that we're all on and okay I didn't know that
this was like the path just got easy little bit easier okay more easier yeah easier it's not
easy all that's hard still but it's easier in this way juggle fuel boom this is why you drink
energy drinks that's no longer a problem if you're on the path and you're like into energy drinks
right get to get real those and sometimes it'll take will power understand you know at the very
least in adjustment period that might not be very comfortable yeah let's not like that anymore
and drink all energy drinks you on anymore just plain go and drink good for you boom path easier
yeah right that adjust I have to concur the path just got easier that goes with the correct
it's sure also we want to have dessert right yeah well if you're on the path what's
you gotta start excluding dessert from time to time in fact pretty much all the time on the path
yeah the occasional dessert can happen I mean yeah I mean my daughter's birthday yesterday
yes I understand oh but I was at Ragland which is kind of one of my go to
right it might be my favorite restaurant yeah and they have that that cast iron pan with the
talk it's yeah they call it the illegal yeah it's good they're like it's so good it should be illegal
yeah good name so we had to order some illegal from my daughter's birthday yeah it's a birthday
right did that illegal girl right so when it showed up the ice cream just melts in the pan
dude it's a whole no situation yeah I understand well let's face it to your point we can't be doing
that you know every day every day exactly we would probably not even more than once per month
what if you could though because you don't do it for the illegal necessarily most of us we do it
because hey that could that thing tastes good yeah you know let's face it yeah after dinner
Ragland I'm assuming you got some steak or something like this it's not like you're like starving
and hungry after the steak you just want some things yeah that's it's it's it's it's it's it's
sad so you get that so you get it you get the illegal you got the yours things sweet cool
but you pay a price yeah now on this new path we don't gotta pay the price look at that
easier do it every day let's talk about more I have to talk about that one of the
yes so and you get additional protein in the form of this dessert so boom right there path
little bit easier you see what I'm saying yeah um good news it also we got some other supporting
elements uh for your joints during our first super cruel oil that stuff before you immunity
well you know what you're saying right now is actually a pretty big deal like if you think about
if you think about the the fact that someone right now is like well they're drinking
three energy drinks a day yeah and it's not good for them and it is gonna have long term
negative health effects legitimate well they're doing it for a reason right they need the benefit
of the energy drink whatever that is but it's like that's not it's a problem it's a problem
and and all of a sudden like that like with a snap of the fingers you're you can actually
you can actually still get the benefits with no downside that's freaking crazy no problem yeah
yeah same thing with dessert all the benefits sweetness goodness filling
let's face it there's a certain texture too like that you kind of you know you want that mole
clear that's true but it's all true so you know does that go against the whole hayman
the path is hard embrace the hardness you look okay but the his his the dichotomy you
turn me on to this he can't have some big deal this is a big deal too look I think I thought
be a to the dell heart and some in for for today but apparently I got a job of coming
in I would the facts the truth I'm doing the best they can talk of here to benefit the group um you
look the goal isn't to drink milk that's not the goal it's a means to an end
I'm learning to check so the milk is the protein to help us recover from our workouts
all right same same yeah right so it's more efficient why should we fight that battle
we don't have to the same thing cool take them all no matter no fact yeah easy money boom
more efficient when without a fight when we're not choking down some crap yes some
chalky how much do you think forward to milk very much so I look I'm I get super
amped oh yeah and it's the kind and this is good not to hide a malk before we train
normally I don't do that but I don't know before we train today because I got done with the
EF online like what 12 30 and we weren't gonna train until 230 times like
because normally I don't eat until after the train but today
again it was calling you you know how certain desserts call your name that's what's happening
too yeah yeah I understand I just don't fully be guess what no problem
calling this path that we're on just got a little bit easier so you don't kind of worry about that anymore
check so yeah like I said we had got E-Munity stuff as well cold war uh vitamin D3 boom
take that all guarantee your path would be a little bit easier versus if you don't take
that we're not getting sick all of a sudden thank you which we like you can get this you
get the drinks at wall wall by the way on the east coast if you're on the east coast you're
gonna wall walk get yourself you can clear out shelves whatever that's kind of like what we're doing
sanction really sanctioned authorized yeah authorized cori my boy cori my cousin cori rolled in
with an actual cooler to a wall wall and just started clearing shelves straight up like what yeah
where's what we're doing where he's just looking at like this like oh yeah you need a wall
you need you can get this stuff at vitamin shop vitamin shop has the whole line of uh uh the
supplement so you can go to vitamin shop or you go to jockelfield.com and get some if you want some
yep and if you're interested in a little discount little free shipping little not having to worry
about remembering to make sure you're always stopped get the subscription path just got a little
leave your easier even if the path just got to leave an easier we're efficient remembering we're
not worried about it more efficient when how we can focus on something else you know no distraction
technically it's BH little delheart it would be like oh you got a distraction going on you
to write down remember to order no it's to eliminate that so that we can focus our efforts exactly
right hundred percent in a way it's decentralized command too because Pete guys over there they're
over they're taking over that's their jam now and they're coming for you so you can go move elsewhere
okay so you can subscribe is what we're saying get free shipping check yeah it's true also
origin USA dot com is where you can get your american made good durable goods as it were but what
that means is you can get american made denim jeans a few models there we got delta 68 and the
factory factory yeah and you say factory like they don't I was at the UDG seal museum in four
peers for them yeah it's awesome and they had a guy that what's like a statue on
it's not a statue it's a mannequin is there a word for that mannequin okay there's a mannequin
but he's dressed up like a like a nom seal straight up just wearing jeans just straight up
that's what he's in the case you know the glass case right like a like a like a action figure yeah
big one big life like that yeah yeah you can get so we made those delta 68's because I know
look I'm probably gonna be living multiple lives you know I'll be back here I was about five
years ago the war and when I come back it's probably gonna be back in nom again could be
possibly I don't know I'm gonna wear jeans and I'm gonna wear delta 68 jeans and I just
want the world to know that and like I said they all are made in America from the even the
bra materials the dirt to the shirt for the jeans as the case may be also this belts on there
some cool wallets on there hoodies athletic wear anyway that's a lot of stuff on there you get
what I'm all made in America or junior essay dot com also good news we have our own store
been had our own store since day one which is again good news just in case you didn't know
was it day one day eight okay I think okay maybe I don't know one of the early days we'll say that
it's called jocco store so you go to jocco store dot com and this is where you can get your shirts,
hats hoodies, rash guards, this kind of stuff discipline equals freedom represent all around the
path so boom not only did the path get a little bit easier got a little bit cooler
swiping in jocco store dot com oh also we have the ace uh subscription situation as well it's
called the shirt locker this is all the shirts that you may or may not see me sometimes Dave Burke
now carry wearing where you're like oh I didn't see that shirt on the store and you're like oh
what do I get that one what do I get that one I know I'm saying this could people are literally saying
that to me or whatever you go to the shirt locker and you subscribe that's where you get those shirts
so yeah the designs are more how should I say it a little bit off off the street in narrow
and more creative let's best wick and say it right now unless it's called the shirt lockers so
subscribe for that one if you want yeah and by the way you can subscribe to this podcast you can
also check out jocco unraveling which I'm doing with their all Cooper we're going hard in the
paint with that one we got the grounded podcast we got the warrior kid podcast which I know I
oh you also got the jockel underground the underground podcast we're we're doing an amplifying
information we're doing a lot of Q&A on that one because we have a little direct methodology you can
ask questions so we're doing a lot of Q&A you've been giving some good advice on that one and
speaking from my position personally that one about the 13 year old kids right the teacher trying
to control the class right like sometimes they're kind of kind of crazy sometimes but it's like
man they kind of get crazy like what do I do how do I deal with that man that was a good one yeah
really good and a lot of that it's yeah it's just good questions coming in so hey if you want to
get to if you want to listen to that we set this up because we need to have some kind of an
alternative platform in case in case in case what well contingencies happen what if what if some
of these platforms decide to start charging you money what if some of these platforms decide to
start interjecting their own advertisements into them what if they just straight up censor us
because they don't like what we're talking about any of these things could happen if those things happen
we wanted to have our own backup plan so we have one jockel underground.com it costs $8 and $18
cents a month through support the cause and if you can't afford it no factor we're the reason
this isn't like oh we don't want you in the game we want you in the game if you can't afford it
email assistance at jockel wonderground.com and we'll take care we also have a YouTube channel
that you can also subscribe to if you want to see my assistant director skills which are
in action on that origin USA also has a YouTube channel you want to see main ties skills doing some good
work up there main tie. I'll talk to him today about some stuff I won't go into it.
I'm going to have a good time. Thanks. Also psychological warfare if you don't know what that is
it's an album jockel album with tracks jockel tracks telling you us how to get past and through our
moments of weakness make them be less of a factor on this path. Oh I got a little bit easier again
now you got jockel there supplements that taste good no factor and boom you can just keep rolling
on that path a little bit easier a little bit more luxurious. You can also get flipside canvas.com
to code a Myers company he's putting stuff to hang on your wall stuff that's cool.
I'm American made check it out we got a bunch of books final spin got a novel common about novel stuff
have you read the late have you read the final Dave? I don't know I read I think you might have
made a couple of small edits since then. Orch your assessment you know my assessment.
The better assessment was my wife's assessment. What about your wife's assessment? That was the real
assess because she has no uh zero skin or not skin of the game no loyalty dog and yeah what if
you're not actually a hearing about me she's probably looking to drop the hammer what was her assessment?
Well the best assessment was she finished it in two settings. Wow and that's like going
to bed I'm going to crack the book open I'm like hey just hey read this tell me what you think
kind of scenario not like a big pressure move and she kind of got through two to two
thorns of it and then the next time finish it she's like that was really good like that the
finished a book in a day in two readings like two settings uh speaks volumes that's good deal it's
good so that's coming out actually the date change I want it comes out it's coming out now no it's
coming out a little bit earlier yeah it seems like the demand is kind of kicking so good looks like
when moving that right I think it's November sixth now so if you want that you know the deal if you
want that first the dish leader substraging attack is field manual the code the evaluation
the protocol is discipline is freedom field manual way the word or kid want to three and four
about face we talked about it today Mikey and the dragons freaking the dragons it's incredible
how often I have to talk about Mikey on the Mikey the dragons I'm going to explain that story to adults
because people are coming afraid to do this I'm afraid to do that it's like oh it's coming
question and even from leaders like I'm afraid to address this it's like at all the time
about face hack worth we talked about it today and then extreme ownership and the dichotomy and
leadership we have a leadership consultant consultancy we saw problems through leadership if you
want to check that out go to echelonfront.com we have online training as well it's
like a leadership gym right with trainers yeah with trainers what do you just think you're going to
just stay in shape by sitting at home no you got to go to the gym what how's your leadership
going to get better how's your leadership just going to even stay at a good level got to go to
the leadership gym that's what we've got yeah phone line dot com yeah yeah phone line dot com
extreme ownership academy so if you want to learn about leadership go there we got courses on
there we're doing live stuff all the time we're doing live stuff all the time you want to ask me
a question go there all answer your question and I'll actually dig down and Dave will come
in off the top roads label be flanking the whole situation like we're there and we have the
monster we just got done with Orlando next monster is Phoenix in August August 17th and 18th Las Vegas
October 28th and 29th go to extremownership.com everything we've done is sold out so if you want to
come go and register we also have EF battlefield we also hate EF battlefield we don't have one
on the calendar right now the next thing we do have on the calendar is FTX where you're going to put
on gear laser tag gear we have this high speed laser tag system and you're going to run operations
and learn these leadership lessons the next one we're doing is in San Diego, Diego right here in
SD July 12 from 13th so if you want to come this only 32 seats for that we haven't really talked
about it yet so we kind of we kind of turned it on when they started filling up we filled up another
one so here we go July 12 from 13th FTX in San Diego you're going to run operations you're going
to put these principles to use give it check it out and then if you want to help service members
you want to help service members active and retired their families gold star families check out
mark Lee's mom mom Lee her she's got a charity organization doing all kinds of great work for
veterans will the main thing she's doing is getting medical treatments for our vets that maybe
aren't being covered by the VA if you want to donate or you want to get involved go to america's
mighty warriors dot org and if you want more of my protracted pontifications we need more of
echoes misplaced meandering or perhaps even more of Dave's animated additions you can find us on the
inner webs on Twitter on the Graham and on Facebook echoes at equitros Dave is at David
art Burke and I am at juggle willing and to the military service men and women out there
thank you for putting the strategy of freedom in detectics and keeping the world from darkness
same goes to our police and law enforcement firefighters paramedics EMTs dispatchers correctional
officers border patrol secret service and all first responders thanks for keeping the world safe from evil
here at home and everyone else out there the direct approach is not as direct as you think
to think again and maybe maybe just try taking the long way around because the long way around
you might find out ends up being the shortest distance between two points until next time this is
Dave and echo in juggle out